BEGIN_PSALM I will extol you , my God and King , and bless your name forever and ever . Every day I will bless you and praise your name forever and ever . Every day I will bless you and praise your name forever and ever . Great is the LORD , and greatly to be praised , and his greatness is unsearchable . One generation shall commend your works to another , and shall declare your mighty acts . On the glorious splendor of your majesty , and on your wondrous works , I will meditate . They shall speak of the might of your awesome deeds , and I will declare your greatness . They shall pour forth the fame of your abundant goodness and shall sing aloud of your righteousness . O Lord , open my lips , and my mouth will declare your praise . For you will not delight in sacrifice , or I would give it ; you will not be pleased with a burnt offering . The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit ; a broken and contrite heart , O God , you will not despise . Do good to Zion in your good pleasure ; build up the walls of Jerusalem ; then will you delight in right sacrifices , in burnt offerings and whole burnt offerings ; then bulls will be offered on your altar . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM He Teach me , O LORD , the way of your statutes ; and I will keep it to the end . Give me understanding , that I may know your testimonies ! It is time for the LORD to act , for your law has been broken . Therefore I love your commandments above gold , above fine gold . Therefore I consider all your precepts to be right ; I hate every false way . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Save me , O God ! For the waters have come up to my neck . I sink in deep mire , where there is no foothold ; I have come into deep waters , and the flood sweeps over me . I am weary with my crying out ; my throat is parched . My eyes grow dim with waiting for my God . More in number than the hairs of my head are those who hate me without cause ; mighty are those who would destroy me , those who attack me with lies . What I did not steal must I now restore ? O God , you know my folly ; the wrongs I have done are not hidden from you . Let not those who hope in you be put to shame through me , O Lord GOD of hosts ; let not those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me , O God of Israel . For it is for your sake that I have borne reproach , that dishonor has covered my face . I have become a stranger to my brothers , an alien to my mother 's sons . For zeal for your house has consumed me , and the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me . When I wept and humbled my soul with fasting , it became my reproach . When I made sackcloth my clothing , I became a byword to them . I am the talk of those who sit in the gate , and the drunkards make songs about me . But as for me , my feet had almost stumbled , my steps had nearly slipped . For I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked . For they drop trouble upon me , and in anger they bear a grudge against me . My heart is in anguish within me ; the terrors of death have fallen upon me . Fear and trembling come upon me , and horror overwhelms me . And I say , "Oh , that I had wings like a dove ! I would fly away and be at rest ; yes , I would wander far away ; I would lodge in the wilderness ; Selah I would hurry to find a shelter from the raging wind and tempest . " Destroy , O Lord , divide their tongues ; for I see violence and strife in the city . Day and night they go around it on its walls , and iniquity and trouble are within it ; ruin is in its midst ; oppression and fraud do not depart from its marketplace . For it is not an enemy who taunts me - then I could bear it ; it is not an adversary who deals insolently with me - then I could hide from him . But it is you , a man , my equal , my companion , my familiar friend . We used to take sweet counsel together ; within God 's house we walked in the throng . Let death steal over them ; let them go down to Sheol alive ; for evil is in their dwelling place and in their heart . But I call to God , and the LORD will save me . Evening and morning and at noon I utter my complaint and moan , and he hears my voice . He redeems my soul in safety from the battle that I wage , for many are arrayed against me . God will give ear and humble them , he who is enthroned from of old , Selah because they do not change and do not fear God . My companion stretched out his hand against his friends ; he violated his covenant . His speech was smooth as butter , yet war was in his heart ; his words were softer than oil , yet they were drawn swords . Cast your burden on the LORD , and he will give you the desires of your heart . Commit your way to the LORD ; trust in him , and he will act . He will bring forth your righteousness as the light , and your justice as the noonday . Be still before the LORD and wait patiently for him ; fret not yourself over the one who prospers in his way , over the man who carries out evil devices ! Refrain from anger , and forsake wrath ! Fret not yourself ; it tends only to evil . For the evildoers shall be cut off , but those who wait for the LORD shall inherit the land , but those cursed by him shall be cut off . The steps of a man are established by the LORD , when he delights in his way ; though he fall , he shall not be cast headlong , for the LORD upholds his hand . I have been young , and now am old , yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken or his children begging for bread . He is ever lending generously , and his children become a blessing . Turn away from evil and do good ; seek peace and pursue it . The eyes of the LORD are toward the righteous and his ears toward their cry . The face of the LORD is against those who do evil , to cut off the memory of them from the earth . When the righteous cry for help , the LORD hears and delivers them out of all their troubles . The LORD is near to all who call on him in truth . He fulfills the desire of those who fear him ; he remembers his covenant forever . He has shown his people the power of his works , in giving them the inheritance of the nations . The works of his hands are faithful and just ; all his precepts are trustworthy ; they are established forever and ever , to be performed with faithfulness and uprightness . He sent redemption to his people ; he has commanded his covenant forever . Holy and awesome is his name ! The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom ; all those who practice it have a good understanding . His praise endures forever ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Vindicate me , O LORD , for my bones are troubled . My soul also is greatly troubled . But you , O LORD , be gracious to me ; heal me , for I have sinned against you ! " My enemies say of me in malice , "When will he die , and his name perish ? " And when one comes to see me , he utters empty words , while his heart gathers iniquity ; when he goes out , he tells it abroad . All who hate me whisper together about me ; they imagine the worst for me . They say , "A deadly thing is poured out on him ; he will not rise again from where he lies . " Even my close friend in whom I trusted , who ate my bread , has lifted his heel against me . But you , O LORD -how long ? Turn , O LORD , deliver my life ; save me for the sake of your steadfast love and your faithfulness will ever preserve me ! For evils have encompassed me beyond number ; my iniquities have overtaken me , and I cannot see ; they are more than the hairs of my head are those who hate me without cause ; mighty are those who would destroy me , those who attack me with lies . What I did not steal must I now restore ? O God , you know my folly ; the wrongs I have done are not hidden from you . Let not those who hope in you be put to shame through me , O Lord GOD of hosts ; let not those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me , O God of Israel . For it is for your sake that I have borne reproach , that dishonor has covered my face . I have become a stranger to my brothers , an alien to my mother 's sons . For zeal for your house has consumed me , and the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me . When I wept and humbled my soul with fasting , it became my reproach . When I made sackcloth my clothing , I became a byword to them . I am the talk of those who sit in the gate , and the drunkards make songs about me . But as for me , I shall walk in my integrity ; redeem me , and be gracious to me . My foot stands on level ground ; in the great assembly I will bless the LORD . The LORD Is My Light and My Salvation END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Remember , O LORD , in David 's favor , all the hardships he endured , how he swore to the LORD and vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob , "I will not enter my house or get into my bed , I will not give sleep to my eyes or slumber to my eyelids , until I find a place for the LORD , a dwelling place for the Mighty One of Jacob . " Behold , we heard of it in Ephrathah ; we found it in the fields of Jaar . "Let us go to his dwelling place ; let us worship at his footstool ! " Arise , O LORD , and go to your resting place , you and the ark of your might . Let your priests be clothed with righteousness , and let your saints shout for joy . For the sake of your servant David , do not turn away the face of your anointed one . The LORD swore to David a sure oath from which he will not turn back : "One of the sons of your body I will set on your throne . If your sons keep my covenant and my testimonies that I shall teach them , their sons also forever shall sit on your throne . " For the LORD has chosen Zion ; he has desired it for his dwelling place : "This is my resting place forever ; here I will dwell , for I have desired it . I will abundantly bless her provisions ; I will satisfy her poor with bread . Her priests I will clothe with salvation , and her saints will shout for joy . There I will make a horn to sprout for David ; I have prepared a lamp for my anointed . His enemies I will clothe with shame , but on him his crown will shine . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise is due to you , O God , in Zion , and to you shall vows be performed . O you who hear prayer , to you shall all flesh come . When iniquities prevail against me , you atone for our transgressions . Blessed is the one you choose and bring near , to dwell in your courts ! We shall be satisfied with the goodness of your house , the holiness of your temple ! By awesome deeds you answer us with righteousness , O God of our salvation , and put away your indignation toward us ! Will you be angry with us forever ? Will you prolong your anger to all generations ? Will you not revive us again , that your people may rejoice in you ? Show us your steadfast love , O LORD , and grant us your salvation . Let me hear what God the LORD will speak , for he will speak peace to his people , to his saints ; but let them not turn back to folly . Surely his salvation is near to those who fear him , that glory may dwell in our land . Steadfast love and faithfulness meet ; righteousness and peace kiss each other . Faithfulness springs up from the ground , and righteousness looks down from the sky . Yes , the LORD will give what is good , and our land will yield its increase . Righteousness will go before him and make his footsteps a way . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD says to my Lord : "Sit at my right hand , until I make your enemies your footstool . " The LORD sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter . Rule in the midst of your enemies ! Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power , in holy garments ; from the womb of the morning , the dew of your youth will be yours . The LORD has sworn and will not change his mind , "You are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek . " The Lord is at your right hand ; he will shatter kings on the day of his wrath . He will execute judgment among the nations , filling them with corpses ; he will shatter chiefs over the wide earth . He will drink from the brook by the way ; therefore he will lift up his head . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Save , O LORD , for the godly one is gone ; for the faithful have vanished from among the children of man . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Save , O LORD , for the godly one is gone ; for the faithful have vanished from among the children of man . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh give thanks to the LORD , for he is good ; for his steadfast love endures forever ! Who can utter the mighty deeds of the LORD , or declare all his praise ? Blessed are they who observe justice , who do righteousness at all times ! Remember me , O LORD , when you show favor to your people ; help me when you save them , that I may look upon the prosperity of your chosen ones , that I may rejoice in the gladness of your nation , that I may glory with your inheritance . Both we and our fathers have sinned ; we have committed iniquity ; we have done wickedness . Our fathers , when they were in Egypt , did not consider your wondrous works ; they did not remember the abundance of your steadfast love , will enter your house . I will bow down toward your holy temple in the fear of you . Lead me , O LORD , in your righteousness because of my enemies ; make your way straight before me . For there is no truth in their mouth ; their inmost self is destruction ; their throat is an open grave ; they flatter with their tongue . Make them bear their guilt , O God ; let them fall by their own counsels ; because of the abundance of their transgressions cast them out , for they have rebelled against you . But let all who take refuge in you rejoice ; let them ever sing for joy , and spread your protection over them , that those who love your name may exult in you . For you bless the righteous , O LORD ; you cover him with favor as with a shield . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! Praise the LORD from the heavens ; praise him in the heights ! Praise him , all his angels ; praise him , all his hosts ! Praise him , sun and moon , praise him , all you shining stars ! Praise him , you highest heavens , and you waters above the heavens ! Let them praise the name of the LORD ! " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Bless the LORD , O my soul ! Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give ear , O my people , to my teaching ; incline your ears to the words of my mouth . For strangers have risen against me ; ruthless men seek my life ; they do not set God before themselves . Selah Behold , God is my helper ; the Lord is the upholder of my life . He will return the evil to my enemies ; in your faithfulness put an end to them . With a freewill offering I will sacrifice to you ; I will give thanks to your name , O LORD , for it is good . For he has delivered me from every trouble , and my eye has looked in triumph on my enemies . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give thanks to the LORD , for he is good ; for his steadfast love endures forever ; the sun to rule over the day , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who spread out the earth above the waters , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt , both of man and of beast ; who in your midst , O Egypt , sent signs and wonders against Pharaoh and all his servants ; who struck down many nations and killed mighty kings , Sihon , king of the Amorites , for his steadfast love endures forever ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will sing of the steadfast love of the LORD . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD says to my Lord : "Sit at my right hand , until I make your enemies your footstool . " The LORD sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter . Rule in the midst of your enemies ! Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power , in holy garments ; from the womb of the morning , the dew of your youth will be yours . The LORD has sworn and will not change his mind , "You are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek . " The Lord is at your right hand ; he will shatter kings on the day of his wrath . He will execute judgment among the nations , filling them with corpses ; he will shatter chiefs over the wide earth . He will drink from the brook by the way ; therefore he will lift up his head . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Save , O LORD , for the godly one is gone ; for the faithful have vanished from among the children of man . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Unless the LORD builds the house , those who build it labor in vain . Unless the LORD watches over the city , the watchman stays awake in vain . It is in vain that you rise up early and go late to rest , eating the bread of anxious toil ; for he gives to his beloved sleep . Behold , children are a heritage from the LORD , the fruit of the womb a reward . Like arrows in the hand of a warrior are the children of one 's youth . Blessed is the man who makes the LORD his trust , who does not turn to the proud , to those who go astray after a lie ! You have multiplied , O LORD my God , your wondrous deeds and your thoughts toward us ; none can compare with you ! I will proclaim and tell of them , yet they are more than can be told . In sacrifice and offering you have not delighted , but you have given me an open ear . Burnt offering and sin offering you have not required . Then I said , "Behold , I have come ; in the scroll of the book it is written of me : I delight to do your will , O my God ; your law is within my heart . " I have told the glad news of deliverance in the great congregation ; behold , I have not restrained my lips , as you know , O LORD . I have not hidden your deliverance within my heart ; I have spoken of your faithfulness and your salvation ; I have not concealed your steadfast love and your faithfulness ! Why should the nations say , "Where is their God ? " Our God is in the heavens ; he does all that he pleases . Their idols are silver and gold , the work of human hands . They have mouths , but do not speak ; eyes , but do not see ; they have ears , but do not hear ; noses , but do not smell . They have hands , but do not feel ; feet , but do not walk ; and they do not make a sound in their throat . Those who make them become like them ; so do all who trust in them . O Israel , trust in the LORD ! He is their help and their shield . O house of Aaron , trust in the LORD ! He is their help and their shield . You who fear the LORD , trust in the LORD ! He is their help and their shield . You who fear the LORD , bless the LORD ! Blessed be the name of the LORD from this time forth and forevermore . For the scepter of wickedness shall not rest on the land allotted to the righteous , lest the righteous stretch out their hands to do wrong . Do good , O LORD , to those who are good , and to those who are upright in their hearts ! But those who turn aside to their crooked ways the LORD will lead away with evildoers ! Peace be upon Israel ! They Have Afflicted Me from My Youth END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , in your strength the king rejoices , and in your salvation how greatly he exults ! You have given him his heart 's desire and have not withheld the request of his lips . Selah For you meet him with rich blessings ; you set a crown of fine gold upon his head . He asked life of you ; you gave it to him , length of days forever and ever . His glory is great through your salvation ; splendor and majesty you bestow on him . For you make him most blessed forever ; you make him glad with the joy of your presence . For the king trusts in the LORD , and through the steadfast love of the Most High he shall not be moved . Your hand will find out all your enemies ; your right hand will find out those who hate you . You will make them as a blazing oven when you appear . The LORD will swallow them up in his wrath , and fire will consume them . You will destroy their descendants from the earth , and their offspring from among the children of man . Everyone utters lies to his neighbor ; with flattering lips and a double heart they speak . May the LORD cut off all flattering lips , the tongue that makes great boasts , those who say , "With our tongue we will prevail , our lips are with us ; who is master over us ? " "Because the poor are plundered , because the needy groan , I will now arise , " says the LORD ; "I will place him in the safety for which he longs . " The words of the LORD are pure words , like silver refined in a furnace on the ground , purified seven times . You , O LORD , will keep them ; you will guard us from this generation forever . On every side the wicked prowl , as vileness is exalted among the children of man . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will extol you , my God and King , and bless your name forever and ever . Every day I will bless you and praise your name forever and ever . Every day I will bless you and praise your name forever and ever . Great is the LORD , and greatly to be praised , and his greatness is unsearchable . One generation shall commend your works to another , and shall declare your mighty acts . On the glorious splendor of your majesty , and on your wondrous works , I will meditate . They shall speak of the might of your awesome deeds , and I will declare your greatness . They shall pour forth the fame of your abundant goodness and shall sing aloud of your righteousness . O Lord , open my lips , and my mouth will declare your praise . For you will not delight in sacrifice , or I would give it ; you will not be pleased with a burnt offering . The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit ; a broken and contrite heart , O God , you will not despise . Do good to Zion in your good pleasure ; build up the walls of Jerusalem ; then will you delight in right sacrifices , in burnt offerings and whole burnt offerings ; then bulls will be offered on your altar . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , my heart is not lifted up ; my eyes are not raised too high ; I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me . But I have calmed and quieted my soul , like a weaned child with its mother ; like a weaned child is my soul within me . O Israel , hope in the LORD from this time forth and forevermore . For the scepter of wickedness shall not rest on the land allotted to the righteous , lest the righteous stretch out their hands to do wrong . Do good , O LORD , to those who are good , and to those who are upright in their hearts ! But those who turn aside to their crooked ways the LORD will lead away with evildoers ! Peace be upon Israel ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Gimel Deal bountifully with your servant , that I may live and keep your word . Open my eyes , that I may behold wondrous things out of your law . I am a sojourner on the earth ; hide not your commandments from me ! My soul is consumed with longing for your rules at all times . You rebuke the insolent , accursed ones , who wander from your commandments . Take away from me scorn and contempt , for I have kept your testimonies . Even though princes sit plotting against me , your servant will meditate on your statutes . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Incline your ear , O LORD , and answer me , for I am poor and needy . Preserve my life , for I am godly ; save your servant , who trusts in you -you are my God . Be gracious to me , O God , for man tramples on me ; all day long an attacker oppresses me ; my enemies trample on me all day long , for many attack me proudly . When I am afraid , I put my trust in you . In God , whose word I praise , in God I trust ; I shall not be afraid . What can flesh do to me ? All day long they injure my cause ; all their thoughts are against me for evil . They stir up strife , they lurk ; they watch my steps , as they have waited for my life . For their crime will they escape ? In wrath cast down the peoples , O God ! You have kept count of my tossings ; put my tears in your bottle . Are they not in your book ? Then my enemies will turn back in the day when I call . This I know , that God is for me . In God , whose word I praise , in God I trust ; I shall not be afraid . What can flesh do to me ? All day long they injure my cause ; all their thoughts are against me for evil . They stir up strife , they lurk ; they watch my steps , as they have waited for my life . For their crime will they escape ? In wrath cast down the peoples , O God ! You have kept count of my tossings ; put my tears in your bottle . Are they not in your book ? Then my enemies will turn back in the day when I call ! For my days pass away like smoke , and my bones burn like a furnace . My heart is struck down like grass and has withered ; I forget to eat my bread . Because of my loud groaning my bones cling to my flesh . I am like a desert owl of the wilderness , like an owl of the waste places ; I lie awake ; I am like a lonely sparrow on the housetop . All the day my enemies taunt me ; those who deride me use my name for a curse . For I eat ashes like bread and mingle tears with my drink , because of your indignation and anger ; for you have taken me up and thrown me down . My days are like an evening shadow ; I wither away like grass . But you , O LORD , be gracious to me ; heal me , for I have sinned against you ! " My enemies say of me in malice , "When will he die , and his name perish ? " And when one comes to see me , he utters empty words , while his heart gathers iniquity ; when he goes out , he tells it abroad . All who hate me whisper together about me ; they imagine the worst for me . They say , "A deadly thing is poured out on him ; he will not rise again from where he lies . " Even my close friend in whom I trusted , who ate my bread , has lifted his heel against me . But you , O LORD -how long ? Turn , O LORD , deliver my life ; save me for the sake of your steadfast love and your faithfulness , for you have exalted above all things your name and your word . On the day I called , you answered me ; my strength of soul you increased . All the kings of the earth shall give you thanks , O LORD , for they have heard the words of your mouth , and they shall sing of the ways of the LORD , and have not wickedly departed from my God . For all his rules were before me , and his statutes I did not put away from me . I was blameless before him , and I kept myself from my guilt . So the LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness , according to the cleanness of my hands in his sight . With the merciful you show yourself merciful ; with the blameless man you show yourself blameless ; with the purified you show yourself pure ; and with the crooked you make yourself seem tortuous . For you save a humble people , but the haughty eyes you bring down . For it is you who light my lamp ; the LORD my God lightens my darkness . For by you I can run against a troop , and by my God I can leap over a wall . This God -his way is perfect ; the word of the LORD proves true ; he is a shield for all those who take refuge in him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM With my voice I cry out to the LORD ; with my voice I plead for mercy to the LORD . I pour out my complaint before him ; I tell my trouble before him . When my spirit faints within me , you know my way ! In the path where I walk they have hidden a trap for me , and with cords they have spread a net ; beside the way they have set snares for me . Selah I say to the boastful , 'Do not boast , ' and to the wicked , 'Do not lift up your horn ; do not lift up your horn on high , or speak with haughty neck . ' " For not from the east or from the west and not from the wilderness comes lifting up , but it is God who executes judgment , putting down one and lifting up another . For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup with foaming wine , well mixed , and he pours out from it , and all the wicked of the earth shall drain it down to the dregs . But I will declare it forever ; I will sing praises to my God while I have my being . Put not your trust in princes , in a son of man , in whom there is no salvation . When his breath departs , he returns to the earth ; on that very day his plans perish . Blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob , whose hope is in the LORD his God , who made heaven and earth . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Not to us , O LORD , not to us , but to your name give glory , for the sake of your steadfast love . For in death there is no remembrance of you ; in Sheol who will give you praise ? I am weary with my moaning ; every night I flood my bed with tears ; I drench my couch with my weeping . My eye wastes away because of grief ; it grows weak because of all my foes . Depart from me , all you workers of evil , for the LORD has heard the sound of my weeping . The LORD has heard my plea ; the LORD accepts my prayer . All my enemies shall be ashamed and greatly troubled ; they shall turn back and be put to shame in a moment . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Clap your hands , all peoples ! Shout to God with loud songs of joy ! For the LORD , the Most High . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! I will give thanks to you , O LORD , among the nations , and sing to your name . Great salvation he brings to his king , and shows steadfast love to his anointed , to David and his offspring forever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain ? The kings of the earth set themselves , and the rulers take counsel together , against the LORD and against his Anointed , saying , "Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us . " He who sits in the heavens laughs ; the Lord holds them in derision . Then he will speak to them in his wrath , and terrify them in his fury , saying , "As for me , I have set my King on Zion , my holy hill . " I will tell of the decree : The LORD said to me , "You are my Son ; today I have begotten you . Ask of me , and I will make the nations your heritage , and the ends of the earth your possession . You shall break them with a rod of iron and dash them in pieces like a potter 's vessel . " Now therefore , O kings , be wise ; be warned , O rulers of the earth . Serve the LORD with fear , and rejoice with trembling . Kiss the Son , lest he be angry , and you perish in the way , for his wrath is quickly kindled . Blessed are all who take refuge in him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM We give thanks to you , O Lord , do I lift up my soul . O my God , in you I trust ; let me not be put to shame , for I call upon you ; let the wicked be put to shame ; let not my enemies exult over me . Indeed , none who wait for you shall be put to shame ; they shall be ashamed who are wantonly treacherous . Make me to know your ways , O LORD ; teach me your statutes ! Make me understand the way of your precepts , and I will meditate on your wondrous works . My soul melts away for sorrow ; strengthen me according to your word ! Put false ways far from me and graciously teach me your law ! I have chosen the way of faithfulness ; I set your rules before me . I cling to your testimonies , O LORD ; let me not be put to shame ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear my prayer , O LORD ; give ear to my pleas for mercy ! In your faithfulness answer me , in your righteousness ! Enter not into judgment with your servant , for no one living is righteous before you . For the enemy has pursued my soul ; he has crushed my life to the ground ; he has made me sit in darkness like those long dead . Therefore my spirit faints within me ; my heart within me is appalled . I remember the days of old ; I meditate on all that you have done ; I ponder the work of your hands . Search Me , O God , and Know My Heart END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM To you , O LORD , I call ; my rock , be not deaf to me , lest , if you be silent to me , I become like those who go down to the pit . Sing praises to the LORD , who sits enthroned in Zion ! Tell among the peoples his deeds ! For he who avenges blood is mindful of them ; he does not forget the cry of the afflicted . Be gracious to me , O LORD , your salvation according to your promise ; then shall I have an answer for him who taunts me , for I trust in your word . And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth , for my hope is in your rules . I will keep your law continually , forever and ever , and I shall walk in a wide place , for I have sought your precepts . I will also speak of your testimonies before kings and shall not be put to shame , having my eyes fixed on all your commandments . I will praise you with an upright heart , when I learn your righteous rules . I will keep your statutes ; do not utterly forsake me ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain ? The kings of the earth set themselves , and the rulers take counsel together , against the LORD and against his Anointed , saying , "Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us . " He who sits in the heavens laughs ; the Lord holds them in derision . Then he will speak to them in his wrath , and terrify them in his fury , saying , "As for me , I have set my King on Zion , my holy hill . " I will tell of the decree : The LORD said to me , "You are my Son ; today I have begotten you . Ask of me , and I will make the nations your heritage , and the ends of the earth your possession . You shall break them with a rod of iron and dash them in pieces like a potter 's vessel . " Now therefore , O kings , be wise ; be warned , O rulers of the earth . Serve the LORD with fear , and rejoice with trembling . Kiss the Son , lest he be angry , and you perish in the way , for his wrath is quickly kindled . Blessed are all who take refuge in him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will extol you , my God and King , and bless your name forever and ever . Every day I will bless you and praise your name forever and ever . Every day I will bless you and praise your name forever and ever . Great is the LORD , and greatly to be praised , and his greatness is unsearchable . One generation shall commend your works to another , and shall declare your mighty acts . On the glorious splendor of your majesty , and on your wondrous works , I will meditate . They shall speak of the might of your awesome deeds , and I will declare your greatness . They shall pour forth the fame of your abundant goodness and shall sing aloud of your righteousness . O Lord , open my lips , and my mouth will declare your praise . For you will not delight in sacrifice , or I would give it ; you will not be pleased with a burnt offering . The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit ; a broken and contrite heart , O God , you will not despise . Do good to Zion in your good pleasure ; build up the walls of Jerusalem ; then will you delight in right sacrifices , in burnt offerings and whole burnt offerings ; then bulls will be offered on your altar . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh give thanks to the LORD , for he is good ; for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who made the great lights , for his steadfast love endures forever ; a heritage to Israel his servant , for his steadfast love endures forever ; the moon and stars to rule over the night , for his steadfast love endures forever . Give thanks to the Lord of lords , for his steadfast love endures forever . Give thanks to the God of heaven , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who led his people through the wilderness , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and made Israel pass through the midst of it , for his steadfast love endures forever . Give thanks to the God of gods , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who alone does great wonders , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt , both of man and of beast ; who in your midst , O Egypt , sent signs and wonders against Pharaoh and all his servants ; who struck down many nations and killed mighty kings , Sihon , king of the Amorites , and Og , king of Bashan , and all the kingdoms of Canaan , and gave their land as a heritage , for his steadfast love endures forever ; Sihon , king of the Amorites , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who alone does great wonders , for his steadfast love endures forever . It is he who remembered us in our low estate , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who led his people through the wilderness , for his steadfast love endures forever ; Sihon , king of the Amorites , for his steadfast love endures forever ; but overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea , for his steadfast love endures forever ! Let the redeemed of the LORD say so , whom he has redeemed from trouble and gathered in from the lands , from the east and from the west , from the north and from the south . Some wandered in desert wastes , finding no way to a city to dwell in ; hungry and thirsty , their soul fainted within them . Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble , and he delivered them from their distress . He made the storm be still , and the waves of the sea were hushed . Then they were glad that the waters were quiet , and he brought them to their desired haven . Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love , for his wondrous works to the children of man ! And let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving , and tell of his deeds in songs of joy ! Some went down to the sea in ships , doing business on the great waters ; they saw the deeds of the LORD , his wondrous works in the deep . For he commanded and raised the stormy wind , which lifted up the waves of the sea . They mounted up to heaven ; they went down to the depths ; their courage melted away in their evil plight ; they reeled and staggered like drunken men and were at their wits ' end . Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble , and he delivered them from their distress . He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death , and burst their bonds apart . Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love , for his wondrous works to the children of man ! For he shatters the doors of bronze and cuts in two the bars of iron . Some were fools through their sinful ways , and because of their iniquities suffered affliction ; they loathed any kind of food , and they drew near to the gates of death . Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble , and he delivered them from their distress . He made the storm be still , and the waves of the sea were hushed . Then they were glad that the waters were quiet , and he brought them to their desired haven . Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love , for his wondrous works to the children of man ! Let them extol him in the congregation of the people , and praise him in the assembly of the elders . He turns rivers into a desert , springs of water into thirsty ground , a fruitful land into a salty waste , because of the evil of its inhabitants . He turns a desert into pools of water , a parched land into springs of water . And there he lets the hungry dwell , and they establish a city to live in ; they sow fields and plant vineyards and get a fruitful yield . By his blessing they multiply greatly , and he does not let their livestock diminish . When they are diminished and brought low through oppression , evil , and sorrow , he pours contempt on princes and makes them wander in trackless wastes ; but he raises up the needy out of affliction and makes their families like flocks . The upright see it and are glad , and all wickedness shuts its mouth . Whoever is wise , let him attend to these things ; let them consider the steadfast love of the LORD . By the word of the LORD the heavens were made , and by the breath of his mouth all their host . He gathers the waters of the sea as a heap ; he puts the deeps in storehouses . Let all the earth fear the LORD ; let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him ! For he spoke , and it came to be ; he commanded , and it stood firm . The LORD brings the counsel of the nations to nothing ; he frustrates the plans of the peoples . The counsel of the LORD stands forever , the plans of his heart to all generations . Blessed is the nation whose God is the LORD , the people whom he has chosen as his heritage ! The LORD looks down from heaven on the children of man , to see if there are any who understand , who seek after God . They have all fallen away ; together they have become corrupt ; there is none who does good . God looks down from heaven on the children of man , to see if there are any who understand , who seek after God . They have all fallen away ; together they have become corrupt ; there is none who does good . The LORD looks down from heaven on the children of man to see if there are any who understand , who seek after God . They have all fallen away ; together they have become corrupt ; there is none who does good , not even one . Have they no knowledge , all the evildoers who eat up my people as they eat bread and do not call upon the LORD ? There they are in great terror , for God is with the generation of the righteous . You would shame the plans of the poor , but the LORD is his refuge . Oh , that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion ! When God restores the fortunes of his people , let Jacob rejoice , let Israel be glad . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will sing of steadfast love and justice ; to you , O LORD , and all your commandments are true . Long have I known from your testimonies that you have founded them forever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD reigns ; let the peoples tremble ! He sits enthroned upon the cherubim ; let the earth quake ! The LORD is great in Zion ; he is exalted over all the peoples . Let them praise your great and awesome name ! Holy is he ! The King in his might loves justice . You have established equity ; you have executed justice and righteousness in Jacob . Exalt the LORD our God ; worship at his footstool ! Holy is he ! Moses and Aaron were among his priests , Samuel also was among those who called upon his name . They called to the LORD , and he answered me . Deliver me , O LORD , from the hands of the wicked ; preserve me from violent men , who plan evil things in their heart and stir up wars continually . They make their tongue sharp as a serpent 's , and under their lips is the venom of asps . Selah Guard me , O LORD , from the hands of the wicked ; preserve me from violent men , who plan evil things in their heart and stir up wars continually . They make their tongue sharp as a serpent 's , and under their lips is the venom of asps . Selah Guard me , O LORD , from lying lips , from a deceitful tongue . What shall be given to you , and what more shall be done to you , you deceitful tongue ? A warrior 's sharp arrows , with glowing coals of the broom tree ! Woe to me , that I sojourn in Meshech , that I dwell among the tents of Kedar ! Too long have I had my dwelling among those who hate peace . I am for peace , but when I speak , they are for war ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Daleth My soul clings to the dust ; give me life according to your promise ! Salvation is far from the wicked , for they do not seek your statutes . Great is your mercy , O LORD ; give me understanding according to your word ! Let my plea come before you ; deliver me according to your word . My lips will pour forth praise , for you teach me your statutes . My eyes shed streams of tears , because people do not keep your law . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Mem Oh how I love your law ! It is my meditation all the day . Your commandment makes me wiser than my enemies , for it is ever with me . I have more understanding than all my teachers , for your testimonies are my meditation . I understand more than the aged , for I keep your precepts . I hold back my feet from every evil way , in order to keep your word . I do not turn aside from your rules , for you have taught me . How sweet are your words to my taste , sweeter than honey to my mouth ! Through your precepts I get understanding ; therefore I hate every false way . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear my prayer , O LORD ; give ear to my pleas for mercy ! In your faithfulness answer me , in your righteousness ! Enter not into judgment with your servant , for no one living is righteous before you . For the enemy has pursued my soul ; he has crushed my life to the ground ; he has made me sit in darkness like those long dead . Therefore my spirit faints within me ; my heart within me is appalled . I remember the days of old ; I meditate on all that you have done ; I ponder the work of your hands . Search Me , O God , and Know My Heart END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The Mighty One , God the LORD , speaks and summons the earth from the rising of the sun to its setting . Out of Zion , the perfection of beauty , God shines forth . Our God comes ; he does not keep silence ; before him is a devouring fire , around him a mighty tempest . He calls to the heavens above and to the earth , that he may judge his people : "Gather to me my faithful ones , who made a covenant with me by sacrifice ! " The heavens declare his righteousness , for God himself is judge ! Selah "Hear , O my people , and I will speak ; O Israel , I will testify against you . I am God , your God . Not for your sacrifices do I rebuke you ; your burnt offerings are continually before me . I will not accept a bull from your house or goats from your folds . For every beast of the forest is mine , the cattle on a thousand hills . I know all the birds of the hills , and all that moves in the field is mine . "If I were hungry , I would not tell you , for the world and its fullness are mine . Do I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats ? Offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving , and perform your vows to the Most High , and call upon me in the day of trouble ; I will deliver you , and you shall glorify me . " But to the wicked God says : "What right have you to recite my statutes or take my covenant on your lips ? For you hate discipline , and you cast my words behind you . If you see a thief , you are pleased with him , and you keep company with adulterers . "You give your mouth free rein for evil , and your tongue frames deceit . You sit and speak against your brother ; you slander your own mother 's son . These things you have done , and I have been silent ; you thought that I was one like yourself . But now I rebuke you and lay the charge before you . "Mark this , then , you who forget God , lest I tear you apart , and there be none to deliver ! The one who offers thanksgiving as his sacrifice glorifies me ; to one who orders his way rightly I will show the salvation of God ! " Create in Me a Clean Heart , O God END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Be merciful to me , O God , be merciful to me , for in you my soul takes refuge ; in the shadow of your wings I will sing for joy . My soul clings to you ; your right hand upholds me . But those who seek to destroy my life shall go down into the depths of the earth ; the heights of the mountains are his also . The sea is his , for he made it , and his hands formed the dry land . Oh come , let us worship and bow down ; let us kneel before the LORD , our Maker ! For he is our God , and we are the people of his pasture , and the sheep of his hand . Today , if you hear his voice , do not harden your hearts , as at Meribah , as on the day at Massah in the wilderness , when your fathers put me to the test and put me to the proof , though they had seen my work . For forty years I loathed that generation and said , "They are a people who go astray in their heart , and they have not known my ways . " Therefore I swore in my wrath , "They shall not enter my rest . " Worship in the Splendor of Holiness : Oh sing to the LORD a new song ; sing to the LORD , all the earth ; break forth into joyous song and sing praises ! Sing praises to the LORD with the lyre ; make melody to him with the harp of ten strings ! Sing to him a new song ; play skillfully on the strings , with loud shouts . For the word of the LORD is upright , and all his work is done in faithfulness . He loves righteousness and justice ; the earth is full of the steadfast love of the LORD , forever ; with my mouth I will make known your faithfulness to all generations . For I said , "Steadfast love will be built up forever ; in the heavens you will establish your faithfulness . " You have said , "I have made a covenant with my chosen one ; I have sworn to David my servant : 'I will establish your offspring forever , and build your throne for all generations . ' " Selah Let the heavens praise your wonders , O LORD , your faithfulness in the assembly of the holy ones ! For who in the skies can be compared to the LORD ? Who among the heavenly beings is like the LORD , a God greatly to be feared in the council of the holy ones , and awesome above all who are around him ? O LORD God of hosts , how long will you be angry with your people 's prayers ? You have fed them with the bread of tears and given them tears to drink in full measure . You make us an object of contention for our neighbors , and our enemies laugh among themselves . Restore us , O God of hosts ; let your face shine , that we may be saved ! You brought a vine out of Egypt ; you drove out the nations and planted it . You cleared the ground for it ; it took deep root and filled the land . The mountains were covered with its shade , the mighty cedars with its branches . It sent out its branches to the sea and its shoots to the River . Why then have you broken down its walls , so that all who pass along the way pluck its fruit ? The boar from the forest ravages it , and all that move in the field feed on it . Turn again , O God of hosts ! Look down from heaven , and see ; have regard for this vine , the stock that your right hand planted , and for the son whom you made strong for yourself . They have burned it with fire ; they have cut it down ; may they perish at the rebuke of your face ! But let your hand be on the man of your right hand , the son of man whom you have made strong for yourself ! Then we shall not turn back from you ; give us life , and we will call upon your name ! Restore us , O LORD God of hosts ! Let your face shine , that we may be saved ! Oh , That My People Would Listen to Me END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! Blessed is the man who fears the LORD ? Him will he instruct in the way that he should choose . His soul shall abide in well -being , and his offspring shall inherit the land . The friendship of the LORD is for those who fear him , and delivers them . Oh , taste and see that the LORD is good ! Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him ! Oh , fear the LORD , you his saints , for those who fear him have no lack ! The young lions suffer want and hunger ; but those who seek the LORD lack no good thing . Come , O children , listen to me ; I will teach you the fear of the LORD . What man is there who desires life and loves many days , that he may see good ? Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit . Turn away from evil and do good ; seek peace and pursue it . The eyes of the LORD are toward the righteous and his ears toward their cry . The face of the LORD is against those who do evil , to cut off the memory of them from the earth . When the righteous cry for help , the LORD hears and delivers them out of all their troubles . The LORD is near to all who call on him , to all who call on him in truth . He fulfills the desire of those who fear him ; he also hears their cry and saves them . The LORD preserves all who love him , but all the wicked he will destroy . My mouth will speak the praise of the LORD , and let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will bless the LORD at all times ; his praise shall continually be in my mouth . My soul makes its boast in the LORD ; let the humble hear and be glad . Oh , magnify the LORD with me , and let us exalt his name together ! I sought the LORD , and he answered them . In the pillar of the cloud he spoke to them ; they kept his testimonies and the statute that he gave them . O LORD our God , you answered them ; you were a forgiving God to them , but an avenger of their wrongdoings . Exalt the LORD our God , and worship at his holy mountain ; for the LORD our God is holy ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Why do you boast of evil , O mighty man ? The steadfast love of God endures all the day . Your tongue plots destruction , like a sharp razor , you worker of deceit . You love evil more than good , and lying more than speaking what is right . Selah You love all words that devour , O deceitful tongue . But God will break you down forever ; he will snatch and tear you from your tent ; he will uproot you from the land of the living . I believed , even when I spoke , "I am greatly afflicted " ; I said in my alarm , "All mankind are liars . " What shall I render to the LORD for all his benefits to me ? I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on the name of the LORD , I will pay my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people , in the courts of the house of our God ! Praise the LORD , for the LORD is good ; sing to his name , for it is pleasant ! For the LORD has chosen Jacob for himself , Israel as his own possession . For I know that the LORD is great , and that our Lord is above all gods . Whatever the LORD pleases , he does , in heaven and on earth , in the seas and all deeps . He it is who makes the clouds rise at the end of the earth , who makes lightnings for the rain and brings forth the wind from his storehouses . He it was who struck down the firstborn of Egypt , for his steadfast love endures forever ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! For it is good to sing praises to our God ; for it is pleasant , and a song of praise is fitting . The LORD builds up Jerusalem ; he gathers the outcasts of Israel . He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds . He determines the number of the stars ; he gives to all of them their names . Great is our Lord , and abundant in power ; his understanding is beyond measure . The LORD lifts up the humble ; he casts the wicked to the ground . Sing to the LORD with thanksgiving ; make melody to our God on the lyre ! He covers the heavens with clouds ; he prepares rain for the earth ; he makes grass grow on the hills . He gives to the beasts their food , and to the young ravens that cry . His delight is not in the strength of the horse , nor his pleasure in the legs of a man , but the LORD takes pleasure in those who fear him , in those who hope in his steadfast love . Praise the LORD , O Jerusalem ! Praise your God , O Zion ! For he strengthens the bars of your gates ; he blesses your children within you . He makes peace in your borders ; he fills you with the finest of the wheat , and with honey from the rock I would satisfy you . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will bless the LORD at all times ; his praise shall continually be in my mouth . My soul makes its boast in the LORD ; let the humble hear and be glad . Oh , magnify the LORD with me , and let us exalt his name together ! I sought the LORD , and he answered them . In the pillar of the cloud he spoke to them ; they kept his testimonies and the statute that he gave them . O LORD our God , you answered them ; you were a forgiving God to them , but an avenger of their wrongdoings . Exalt the LORD our God , and worship at his holy mountain ; for the LORD our God is holy ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , why do you cast us off forever ? Why does your anger smoke against the sheep of your pasture ? Remember your congregation , which you have purchased of old , which you have redeemed to be the tribe of your heritage ! Remember Mount Zion , where you have dwelt . Direct your steps to the perpetual ruins ; the enemy has destroyed everything in the sanctuary ! Your foes have roared in the midst of your meeting place ; they set up their own signs for signs . They were like those who swing axes in a forest of trees . And all its carved wood they broke down with hatchets and hammers . They set your sanctuary on fire ; they profaned the dwelling place of your name , bringing it down to the ground . They said to themselves , "We will utterly subdue them " ; they burned all the meeting places of God in the land . We do not see our signs ; there is no longer any prophet , and there is none among us who knows how long . How long , O God , is the foe to scoff ? Is the enemy to revile your name forever ? Why do you hold back your hand , your right hand ? Take it from the fold of your garment and destroy them ! Yet God my King is from of old , working salvation in the midst of the earth . You divided the sea by your might ; you broke the heads of the sea monsters on the waters . You crushed the heads of Leviathan ; you gave him as food for the creatures of the wilderness . You split open springs and brooks ; you dried up ever -flowing streams . Yours is the day , yours also the night ; you have established the heavenly lights and the sun . You have fixed all the boundaries of the earth ; you have made summer and winter . Remember this , O LORD , how the enemy scoffs , and a foolish people reviles your name . Do not deliver the soul of your dove to the wild beasts ; do not forget the life of your poor forever . Have regard for the covenant , for the dark places of the land are full of the habitations of violence . Let not the downtrodden turn back in shame ; let the poor and needy praise your name . Arise , O God , defend your cause ; remember how the foolish scoff at you all the day ! Do not forget the clamor of your foes , the uproar of those who rise against you , which goes up continually ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM May God be gracious to us and bless us and make his face to shine upon us , Selah that your way may be known on earth , your saving power among all nations . Let the peoples praise you , O God ; let all the peoples praise you ! Let the nations be glad and sing for joy , for you judge the peoples with equity and guide the nations upon earth . Selah Let the peoples praise you , O God ; let all the peoples praise you ! Let the nations be glad and sing for joy , for you judge the peoples with equity and guide the nations upon earth . Selah Let the peoples praise you , O God ; let all the peoples praise you ! The earth has yielded its increase ; God , our God , shall bless us . God shall bless us ; let all the ends of the earth and of the farthest seas ; the one who by his strength established the mountains , being girded with might ; who stills the roaring of the seas , the roaring of their waves , the tumult of the peoples , so that those who dwell at the ends of the earth are in awe at your signs . You make the going out of the morning and the evening to shout for joy . You visit the earth and water it ; you greatly enrich it ; the river of God is full of water ; you provide their grain , for so you have prepared it . You water its furrows abundantly , settling its ridges , softening it with showers , and blessing its growth . You crown the year with your bounty ; your wagon tracks overflow with abundance . The pastures of the wilderness overflow , the hills gird themselves with joy , the meadows clothe themselves with flocks , the valleys deck themselves with grain , they shout and sing together for joy . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , rebuke me not in your anger , nor discipline me in your wrath . Be gracious to me , O LORD , your salvation according to your promise ; then shall I have an answer for him who taunts me , for I trust in your word . And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth , for my hope is in your rules . I will keep your statutes ; do not utterly forsake me ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! Praise God in his sanctuary ; praise him in his mighty heavens ! Praise him for his mighty deeds ; praise him according to his excellent greatness ! Praise him with trumpet sound ; praise him with lute and harp ! Praise him with tambourine and dance ; praise him with strings and pipe ! Praise him with sounding cymbals ; praise him with loud clashing cymbals ! Let everything that has breath praise the LORD ! Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM As a deer pants for flowing streams , so pants my soul for you , O God . My soul thirsts for God , for the living God . When shall I come and appear before God ? My tears have been my food day and night , while they say to me all the day long , "Where is your God ? " Why are you cast down , O my soul , and forget not all his benefits , who forgives all your iniquity , who heals all your diseases , who redeems your life from the pit , who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy , who satisfies you with good so that your youth is renewed like the eagle 's . The LORD works righteousness and justice for all who are oppressed . He made known his ways to Moses , his acts to the people of Israel . The LORD is merciful and gracious , slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love . He will not always chide , nor will he keep his anger forever . He does not deal with us according to our sins , nor repay us according to our iniquities . For as high as the heavens are above the earth , so great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him ; as far as the east is from the west , so far does he remove our transgressions from us . As a father shows compassion to his children , so the LORD shows compassion to those who fear him . For he knows our frame ; he remembers that we are dust . As for man , his days are like grass ; he flourishes like a flower of the field ; for the wind passes over it , and it is gone , and its place knows it no more . But the steadfast love of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him , and he makes known to them his covenant . My eyes are ever toward the LORD , for he will pluck my feet out of the net . Turn to me and be gracious to me ; give your strength to your servant , and save the son of your maidservant . Show me a sign of your favor , that those who hate me may see and be put to shame because you , LORD , have helped me and comforted me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Shout for joy in the LORD , O you righteous , and give thanks to his holy name ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Bless the LORD , O my soul ! Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM If it had not been the LORD who was on our side - let Israel now say - if it had not been the LORD who was on our side - let Israel now say - if it had not been the LORD who was on our side when people rose up against us , then they would have swallowed us up alive , when their anger was kindled against us ; then the flood would have swept us away , the torrent would have gone over us ; then over us would have gone the raging waters . Blessed be the LORD , the God of Israel , from everlasting to everlasting ! And let all the people say , "Amen ! " Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Ayin I have done what is just and right ; do not leave me to my oppressors . Give your servant a pledge of good ; let not the insolent oppress me . My eyes long for your promise ; I ask , "When will you comfort me ? " For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke , yet I have not forgotten your statutes . How long must your servant endure ? When will you judge those who persecute me ? The insolent have dug pitfalls for me ; they do not live according to your law . All your commandments are sure ; they persecute me with falsehood ; help me ! They have almost made an end of me on earth , but I have not forsaken your precepts . In your steadfast love give me life , that I may keep the testimonies of your mouth . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I love the LORD , because he has dealt bountifully with me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Truly God is good to Israel , to those who are pure in heart . But as for me , I shall walk in my integrity ; redeem me , and be gracious to me . My foot stands on level ground ; in the great assembly I will bless the LORD . The LORD Is My Light and My Salvation END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD reigns ; he is robed in majesty ; the LORD is robed ; he has put on strength as his belt . Yes , the world is established ; it shall never be moved ; he will be remembered forever . He is not afraid of bad news ; his heart is firm , trusting in the LORD . His heart is steady ; he will not be afraid , until he looks in triumph on his adversaries . He has distributed freely ; he has given to the poor ; his righteousness endures forever ; his horn is exalted in honor . The wicked man sees it and is angry ; he gnashes his teeth and melts away ; the desire of the wicked will perish ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Shout for joy to God , all the earth ; sing the glory of his name ; give to him glorious praise ! Say to God , "How awesome are your deeds ! So great is your power that your enemies come cringing to you . All the earth worships you and sings praises to you ; they sing praises to your name . " Selah Come and see what God has done : he is awesome in his deeds toward the children of man . He turned the sea into dry land ; they passed through the river on foot . There did we rejoice in him , who rules by his might forever , whose eyes keep watch on the nations - let not the rebellious exalt themselves . Selah Bless our God , O peoples ; let the sound of his praise be heard , who has kept our soul among the living and has not let our feet slip . For you , O God , have heard my vows ; you have given me the heritage of those who fear your name . Prolong the life of the king ; may his years endure to all generations ! May he be like rain that falls on the mown grass , like showers that water the earth ! In his days may the righteous flourish , and peace abound , till the moon be no more ! May he have dominion from sea to sea , and from the River to the ends of the earth . Selah Each evening they come back , howling like dogs and prowling about the city . There they are , bellowing with their mouths with swords in their lips - for "Who , " they think , "will hear us ? " But you , O LORD , laugh at them ; you hold all the nations in derision . O my Strength , I will watch for you , for you , O God , are my fortress , the God who shows me steadfast love . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will sing of the steadfast love of the LORD . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will give thanks to the LORD with my whole heart ; I will recount all of your wonderful deeds . I will be glad and exult in you ; I will sing praise to your name , O Most High ; to declare your steadfast love in the morning . For you have been to me a fortress and a refuge in the day of my distress ! Incline your ear to me ; answer me speedily in the day when I call ! For my days pass away like smoke , and my bones burn like a furnace . My heart is struck down like grass and has withered ; I forget to eat my bread . Because of my loud groaning my bones cling to my flesh . I am like a desert owl of the wilderness , like an owl of the waste places ; I lie awake ; I am like a lonely sparrow on the housetop . All the day my enemies taunt me ; those who deride me use my name for a curse . For I eat ashes like bread and mingle tears with my drink , because of your indignation and anger ; for you have taken me up and thrown me down . My days are like an evening shadow ; I wither away like grass . But you , O LORD , are a shield about me , my glory , and the lifter of my head . I cried aloud to the LORD , and he answered me and delivered me from all my fears . Those who look to him are radiant , and their faces shall never be ashamed . This poor man cried , and the LORD heard him and saved him out of all his troubles . The angel of the LORD encamps around those who fear him , and he makes known to them his covenant . My eyes are ever toward the LORD , for he will pluck my feet out of the net . Turn to me and be gracious to me , for I am lonely and afflicted . The troubles of my heart are enlarged ; bring me out of my distresses . Consider my affliction and my trouble , and forgive all my sins . Consider how many are my foes , and with what violent hatred they hate me . Oh , guard my soul , and deliver me ! Let me not be put to shame , for I find my delight in your commandments , which I love , and I will meditate on your wondrous works . My soul melts away for sorrow ; strengthen me according to your word ! Put false ways far from me and graciously teach me your law ! I have chosen the way of faithfulness ; I set your rules before me . I cling to your testimonies , O LORD ; let me not be put to shame ; let them go silently to Sheol . Let the lying lips be mute , which speak insolently against the righteous in pride and contempt . Oh , how abundant is your goodness , which you have stored up for those who fear you and worked for those who take refuge in you , in the sight of the children of mankind ! In the cover of your presence you hide them from the plots of men ; you store them in your shelter from the strife of tongues . Blessed be the LORD , for he has wondrously shown his steadfast love to me when I was in a besieged city . I had said in my alarm , "I am cut off from your sight . " But you heard the voice of my pleas for mercy , when I cry to you for help , when I lift up my hands toward your most holy sanctuary . Do not drag me off with the wicked , with the workers of evil , who speak peace with their neighbors while evil is in their hearts . Give to them according to their work and according to the evil of their deeds ; give to them according to the work of their hands ; render them their due reward . Because they do not regard the works of the LORD or the work of his hands , he will tear them down and build them up no more . Blessed be the LORD ! For he has heard the voice of my pleas for mercy ! If you , O LORD , should mark iniquities , O Lord , who could stand ? But with you there is forgiveness , that you may be feared . I wait for the LORD , my soul waits , and in his word I hope ; my soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning . O Israel , hope in the LORD from this time forth and forevermore . Let Us Go to the House of the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will give thanks to the LORD with my whole heart ; I will recount all of your wonderful deeds . I will be glad and exult in you ; I will sing praise to your name , O Most High ; to declare your steadfast love in the morning . For you have been to me a fortress and a refuge in the day of my distress ! Incline your ear to me ; answer me speedily in the day when I call ! For my days pass away like smoke , and my bones burn like a furnace . My heart is struck down like grass and has withered ; I forget to eat my bread . Because of my loud groaning my bones cling to my flesh . I am like a desert owl of the wilderness , like an owl of the waste places ; I lie awake ; I am like a lonely sparrow on the housetop . All the day my enemies taunt me ; those who deride me use my name for a curse . For I eat ashes like bread and mingle tears with my drink , because of your indignation and anger ; for you have taken me up and thrown me down . My days are like an evening shadow ; I wither away like grass . But you , O LORD , are a shield about me , my glory , and the lifter of my head . I cried aloud to the LORD , and he answered me and delivered me from all my fears . Those who look to him are radiant , and their faces shall never be ashamed . This poor man cried , and the LORD heard him and saved him out of all his troubles . The angel of the LORD encamps around those who fear him , and he makes known to them his covenant . My eyes are ever toward the LORD , for he will pluck my feet out of the net . Turn to me and be gracious to me , for I am lonely and afflicted . The troubles of my heart are enlarged ; bring me out of my distresses . Consider my affliction and my trouble , and forgive all my sins . Consider how many are my foes , and with what violent hatred they hate me . Oh , guard my soul , and deliver me ! Let me not be put to shame , for I find my delight in your commandments , which I love , and I will meditate on your wondrous works . My soul melts away for sorrow ; strengthen me according to your word ! Put false ways far from me and graciously teach me your law ! I have chosen the way of faithfulness ; I set your rules before me . I cling to your testimonies , O LORD ; let me not be put to shame ; let them go silently to Sheol . Let the lying lips be mute , which speak insolently against the righteous in pride and contempt . Oh , how abundant is your goodness , which you have stored up for those who fear you and worked for those who take refuge in you , in the sight of the children of mankind ! In the cover of your presence you hide them from the plots of men ; you store them in your shelter from the strife of tongues . Blessed be the LORD , for he has wondrously shown his steadfast love to me when I was in a besieged city . I had said in my alarm , "I am cut off from your sight . " But you heard the voice of my pleas for mercy , when I cry to you for help , when I lift up my hands toward your most holy sanctuary . Do not drag me off with the wicked , with the workers of evil , who speak peace with their neighbors while evil is in their hearts . Give to them according to their work and according to the evil of their deeds ; give to them according to the work of their hands ; render them their due reward . Because they do not regard the works of the LORD or the work of his hands , he will tear them down and build them up no more . Blessed be the LORD ! For he has heard the voice of my pleas for mercy ! If you , O LORD , should mark iniquities , O Lord , who could stand ? But with you there is forgiveness , that you may be feared . I wait for the LORD , my soul waits , and in his word I hope ; my soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning . O Israel , hope in the LORD from this time forth and forevermore . Let Us Go to the House of the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Beth How can a young man keep his way pure ? By guarding it according to your word . With my whole heart I seek you ; let me not wander from your commandments ! I have stored up your word in my heart , that I might not sin against you . Blessed are you , O LORD ; teach me your paths . Lead me in your truth and teach me , for you are the God of my salvation ; for you I wait all the day long . Remember your mercy , O LORD , and your law is my delight . Let the insolent be put to shame , because they have wronged me with falsehood ; as for me , I will meditate on your precepts and fix my eyes on your ways . I will delight in your statutes ; I will not forget your word . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Why , O LORD , do you stand far away ? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble ? In arrogance the wicked hotly pursue the poor ; let them be caught in the schemes that they have devised . For the wicked boasts of the desires of his soul , and the one greedy for gain curses and renounces the LORD . In the pride of his face the wicked does not seek him ; all his thoughts are , "There is no God . " They are corrupt , they do abominable deeds , there is none who does good . God looks down from heaven on the children of man , to see if there are any who understand , who seek after God . They have all turned aside ; together they have become corrupt ; there is none who does good , not even one . Have they no knowledge , all the evildoers who eat up my people as they eat bread and do not call upon the LORD ? There they are in great terror , for God is with the generation of the righteous . You would shame the plans of the poor , but the LORD is his refuge . Oh , that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion ! When the LORD restores the fortunes of his people , let Jacob rejoice , let Israel be glad . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Save me , O God ! For the waters have come up to my neck . I sink in deep mire , where there is no foothold ; I have come into deep waters , and the flood sweeps over me . I am weary with my crying out ; my throat is parched . My eyes grow dim with waiting for my God . More in number than the hairs of my head are those who hate me without cause ; mighty are those who would destroy me , those who attack me with lies . What I did not steal must I now restore ? O God , you know my folly ; the wrongs I have done are not hidden from you . Let not those who hope in you be put to shame through me , O Lord GOD of hosts ; let not those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me , O God of Israel . For it is for your sake that I have borne reproach , that dishonor has covered my face . I have become a stranger to my brothers , an alien to my mother 's sons . For zeal for your house has consumed me , and the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me . When I wept and humbled my soul with fasting , it became my reproach . When I made sackcloth my clothing , I became a byword to them . I am the talk of those who sit in the gate , and the drunkards make songs about me . But as for me , my feet had almost stumbled , my steps had nearly slipped . For I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked . For they drop trouble upon me , and in anger they bear a grudge against me . My heart is in anguish within me ; the terrors of death have fallen upon me . Fear and trembling come upon me , and horror overwhelms me . And I say , "Oh , that I had wings like a dove ! I would fly away and be at rest ; yes , I would wander far away ; I would lodge in the wilderness ; Selah I would hurry to find a shelter from the raging wind and tempest . " Destroy , O Lord , divide their tongues ; for I see violence and strife in the city . Day and night they go around it on its walls , and iniquity and trouble are within it ; ruin is in its midst ; oppression and fraud do not depart from its marketplace . For it is not an enemy who taunts me - then I could bear it ; it is not an adversary who deals insolently with me - then I could hide from him . But it is you , a man , my equal , my companion , my familiar friend . We used to take sweet counsel together ; within God 's house we walked in the throng . Let death steal over them ; let them go down to Sheol alive ; for evil is in their dwelling place and in their heart . But I call to God , and the LORD will save me . Evening and morning and at noon I utter my complaint and moan , and he hears my voice . He redeems my soul in safety from the battle that I wage , for many are arrayed against me . God will give ear and humble them , he who is enthroned from of old , Selah because they do not change and do not fear God . My companion stretched out his hand against his friends ; he violated his covenant . His speech was smooth as butter , yet war was in his heart ; his words were softer than oil , yet they were drawn swords . Cast your burden on the LORD , and he will give you the desires of your heart . Commit your way to the LORD ; trust in him , and he will act . He will bring forth your righteousness as the light , and your justice as the noonday . Be still before the LORD and wait patiently for him ; fret not yourself over the one who prospers in his way , over the man who carries out evil devices ! Refrain from anger , and forsake wrath ! Fret not yourself ; it tends only to evil . For the evildoers shall be cut off , but those who wait for the LORD shall inherit the land , but those cursed by him shall be cut off . The steps of a man are established by the LORD , when he delights in his way ; though he fall , he shall not be cast headlong , for the LORD upholds his hand . I have been young , and now am old , yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken or his children begging for bread . He is ever lending generously , and his children become a blessing . Turn away from evil and do good ; seek peace and pursue it . The eyes of the LORD are toward the righteous and his ears toward their cry . The face of the LORD is against those who do evil , to cut off the memory of them from the earth . When the righteous cry for help , the LORD hears and delivers them out of all their troubles . The LORD is near to all who call on him in truth . He fulfills the desire of those who fear him ; he remembers his covenant forever . He has shown his people the power of his works , in giving them the inheritance of the nations . The works of his hands are faithful and just ; all his precepts are trustworthy ; they are established forever and ever , to be performed with faithfulness and uprightness . He sent redemption to his people ; he has commanded his covenant forever . Holy and awesome is his name ! The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom ; all those who practice it have a good understanding . His praise endures forever ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM To you , O LORD , I call ; my rock , be not deaf to me , lest , if you be silent to me , I become like those who go down to the pit . Sing praises to the LORD , who sits enthroned in Zion ! Tell among the peoples his deeds ! For he who avenges blood is mindful of them ; he does not forget the cry of the afflicted . Be gracious to me , O LORD , for I am languishing ; heal me , O LORD , for your steadfast love is good ; according to your abundant mercy blot out my transgressions . Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity , and cleanse me from my sin ! For I know my transgressions , and my sin is ever before me . Against you , you only , have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight , so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment . Behold , I was brought forth in iniquity , and in sin did my mother conceive me . Behold , you delight in truth in the inward being , and you teach me wisdom in the secret heart . Purge me with hyssop , and I shall be clean ; wash me , and I shall be whiter than snow . Let me hear joy and gladness ; let the bones that you have broken rejoice . Hide your face from my sins , and blot out all my iniquities . Create in me a clean heart , O God , and renew a right spirit within me . Cast me not away from your presence , and take not your Holy Spirit from me . Restore to me the joy of your salvation , and uphold me with a willing spirit . Then I will teach transgressors your ways , and sinners will return to you . Deliver me from bloodguiltiness , O God , O God of my salvation ! For my father and my mother have forsaken me , but the LORD will take me in . Teach me your way , O LORD , that I may walk in your truth ; unite my heart to fear your name . I give thanks to you , O God ; we give thanks , for your name is near . We recount your wondrous deeds . "At the set time that I appoint I will judge with equity . When the earth totters , and all its inhabitants , it is I who keep steady its pillars . Selah I say to the boastful , 'Do not boast , ' and to the wicked , 'Do not lift up your horn ; do not lift up your horn on high , or speak with haughty neck . ' " For not from the east or from the west and not from the wilderness comes lifting up , but it is God who executes judgment , putting down one and lifting up another . For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup with foaming wine , well mixed , and he pours out from it , and all the wicked of the earth shall drain it down to the dregs . But I will declare it forever ; I will sing praises to my God while I have being . May my meditation be pleasing to him , for I rejoice in the LORD . Let sinners be consumed from the earth , and let the wicked be no more ! Bless the LORD , O my soul ! I will praise the LORD as long as I live ; in your name I will lift up my hands . My soul will be satisfied as with fat and rich food , and my mouth will praise you with joyful lips , when I remember you upon my bed , and meditate on you in the watches of the night ; for you have been my help , and in the shadow of your wings I will take refuge , till the storms of destruction pass by . I cry out to God Most High , to God who fulfills his purpose for me . He will send from heaven and save me ; he will put to shame him who tramples on me . Selah God will send out his steadfast love and his faithfulness ! My soul is in the midst of lions ; I lie down amid fiery beasts - the children of man , whose teeth are spears and arrows , whose tongues are sharp swords . Be exalted , O God , above the heavens ! Let your glory be over all the earth ! They set a net for my steps ; my soul was bowed down . They dug a pit in my way , but they have fallen into it themselves . Selah My heart is steadfast , O God ! I will sing and make melody with all my being ! Awake , O harp and lyre ! I will awake the dawn ! I will give thanks to the LORD with my whole heart , in the company of the upright , in the congregation . Great are the works of the LORD , studied by all who delight in them . Full of splendor and majesty is his work , and his righteousness endures forever . He has caused his wondrous works to be remembered ; the LORD is gracious and merciful . He provides food for those who fear him ; he remembers his covenant forever . He has shown his people the power of his works , in giving them the inheritance of the nations . The works of his hands are faithful and just ; all his precepts are trustworthy ; they are established forever and ever , to be performed with faithfulness and uprightness . He sent redemption to his people ; he has commanded his covenant forever . Holy and awesome is his name ! The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom ; all those who practice it have a good understanding . His praise endures forever ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , why do you cast us off forever ? Why does your anger smoke against the sheep of your pasture ? Remember your congregation , which you have purchased of old , which you have redeemed to be the tribe of your heritage ! Remember Mount Zion , where you have dwelt . Direct your steps to the perpetual ruins ; the enemy has destroyed everything in the sanctuary ! Your foes have roared in the midst of your meeting place ; they set up their own signs for signs . They were like those who swing axes in a forest of trees . And all its carved wood they broke down with hatchets and hammers . They set your sanctuary on fire ; they profaned the dwelling place of your name , bringing it down to the ground . They said to themselves , "We will utterly subdue them " ; they burned all the meeting places of God in the land . We do not see our signs ; there is no longer any prophet , and there is none among us who knows how long . How long , O God , is the foe to scoff ? Is the enemy to revile your name forever ? Why do you hold back your hand , your right hand ? Take it from the fold of your garment and destroy them ! Yet God my King is from of old , working salvation in the midst of the earth . You divided the sea by your might ; you broke the heads of the sea monsters on the waters . You crushed the heads of Leviathan ; you gave him as food for the creatures of the wilderness . You split open springs and brooks ; you dried up ever -flowing streams . Yours is the day , yours also the night ; you have established the heavenly lights and the sun . You have fixed all the boundaries of the earth ; you have made summer and winter . Remember this , O LORD , how the enemy scoffs , and a foolish people reviles your name . Do not deliver the soul of your dove to the wild beasts ; do not forget the life of your poor forever . Have regard for the covenant , for the dark places of the land are full of the habitations of violence . Let not the downtrodden turn back in shame ; let the poor and needy praise your name . Arise , O God , defend your cause ; remember how the foolish scoff at you all the day ! Do not forget the clamor of your foes , the uproar of those who rise against you , which goes up continually ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Ayin I have done what is just and right ; do not leave me to my oppressors . Give your servant a pledge of good ; let not the insolent oppress me . My eyes long for your promise ; I ask , "When will you comfort me ? " For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke , yet I have not forgotten your statutes . How long must your servant endure ? When will you judge those who persecute me ? The insolent have dug pitfalls for me ; they do not live according to your law . All your commandments are sure ; they persecute me with falsehood ; help me ! They have almost made an end of me on earth , but I have not forsaken your precepts . In your steadfast love give me life , that I may keep the testimonies of your mouth . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh give thanks to the LORD , for he is good , for his steadfast love endures forever ; but overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and gave their land as a heritage , for his steadfast love endures forever ; he who gives food to all flesh , for his steadfast love endures forever ; the sun to rule over the day , for his steadfast love endures forever ! Let Israel say , "His steadfast love endures forever . " Let those who fear the LORD say , "His steadfast love endures forever . " Let those who fear the LORD say , "His steadfast love endures forever . " Let the house of Aaron say , "His steadfast love endures forever . " Out of my distress I called on the LORD ; the LORD answered me and set me free . The LORD is on my side ; I will not fear . What can man do to me ? The LORD is on my side ; I will not fear . What can man do to me ? I must perform my vows to you , O God ; we give thanks , for your name is near . We recount your wondrous deeds . "At the set time that I appoint I will judge with equity . When the earth totters , and all its inhabitants , it is I who keep steady its pillars . Selah I say to the LORD , You are my God ; give ear to the voice of my pleas for mercy , when I cry to you for help , when I lift up my hands toward your most holy sanctuary . Do not drag me off with the wicked , with the workers of evil , who speak peace with their neighbors while evil is in their hearts . Give to them according to their work and according to the evil of their deeds ; give to them according to the work of their hands ; render them their due reward . Because they do not regard the works of the LORD or the work of his hands , he will tear them down and build them up no more . Blessed be the LORD ! For he has heard the voice of my pleas for mercy . The LORD is my strength and my song ; he has become my salvation . Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous : "The right hand of the LORD does valiantly , the right hand of the LORD exalts , the right hand of the LORD does valiantly , the right hand of the LORD does valiantly ! " I shall not die , but I shall live , and recount the deeds of the LORD . The LORD has disciplined me severely , but he has not given me over to death . Open to me the gates of righteousness , that I may enter through them and give thanks to the LORD . This is the gate of the LORD ; the righteous shall enter through it . I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation . The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone . This is the LORD 's doing ; it is marvelous in our eyes . This is the day that the LORD has made ; let us rejoice and be glad in it . Save us , we pray , O LORD ! O LORD , we pray , give us success ! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the LORD I cut them off ! They surrounded me like bees ; they went out like a fire among thorns ; in the name of the LORD ! Blessed be the LORD from Zion , he who dwells in Jerusalem ! Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , who shall sojourn in your tent ? Who shall dwell on your holy hill ? He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart ; who does not slander with his tongue and does no evil to his neighbor , nor takes up a reproach against his friend ; in whose eyes a vile person is despised , but who honors those who fear the LORD ; who swears to his own hurt and does not change ; who does not put out his money at interest and does not take a bribe against the innocent . He who does these things shall never be moved . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear my cry , O God , listen to my prayer ; from the end of the earth I call to you when my heart is faint . Lead me to the rock that is higher than I , for you have been my refuge , a strong tower against the enemy . Let me dwell in your tent forever ! Let me take refuge under the shelter of your wings ! Selah For you , O God , have heard my vows ; you have given me the heritage of those who fear your name . Prolong the life of the king ; may his years endure to all generations ! May he be like rain that falls on the mown grass , like showers that water the earth ! In his days may the righteous flourish , and peace abound , till the moon be no more ! May he have dominion from sea to sea , and from the River to the ends of the earth ! May desert tribes bow down before him , and his enemies lick the dust ! May the kings of Tarshish and of the coastlands render him tribute ; may the kings of Sheba and Seba bring gifts ! May all kings fall down before him , all nations serve him ! For he delivers the needy when he calls , the poor and him who has no helper . He has pity on the weak and the needy , and saves the lives of the needy . From oppression and violence he redeems their life , and precious is their blood in his sight . Long may he live ; may gold of Sheba be given to him ! May prayer be made for him continually , and blessings invoked for him all the day ! May there be abundance of grain in the land ; on the tops of the mountains may it wave ; may its fruit be like Lebanon ; and may people blossom in the cities like the grass of the field ! May his name endure forever , his fame continue as long as the sun ! May people be blessed in him , all nations call him blessed ! Blessed be the LORD , the God of Israel , who alone does wondrous things . Blessed be his glorious name forever ; may the whole earth be filled with his glory ! Amen and Amen ! The prayers of David , the son of Jesse , are ended . God Is My Strength and Portion Forever END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Be gracious to me , O LORD , for I have walked in my integrity , and I have trusted in the LORD without wavering . Prove me , O LORD , and try me ; test my heart and my mind . For your steadfast love is before my eyes , and I walk in your faithfulness . I do not sit with men of falsehood , nor do I consort with hypocrites . I hate the assembly of evildoers , and I will not sit with the wicked . I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar , O LORD , proclaiming thanksgiving aloud , and telling all your wondrous deeds . O LORD , I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells . Do not sweep my soul away with sinners , nor my life with bloodthirsty men , in whose hands are evil devices , and whose right hands are full of bribes . But as for me , I shall walk in my integrity ; redeem me , and be gracious to me . My foot stands on level ground ; in the great assembly I will bless the LORD . The LORD Is My Light and My Salvation END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Out of the depths I cry to you , O LORD ! O Lord , hear my voice ! Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my pleas for mercy ! If you , O LORD , should mark iniquities , O Lord , who could stand ? But with you there is forgiveness , that you may be feared . Turn away the reproach that I dread , for your rules are good . Behold , I long for your precepts ; in your righteousness give me life ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In the LORD I take refuge ; how can you say to my soul , "Flee like a bird to your mountain , for behold , the wicked bend the bow ; they have fitted their arrow to the string to shoot in the dark at the upright in heart ; if the foundations are destroyed , what can the righteous do ? " The LORD is in his holy temple ; the LORD 's throne is in heaven ; his eyes see , his eyelids test the children of man . The LORD tests the righteous , but his soul hates the wicked and the one who loves violence . Let him rain coals on the wicked ; fire and sulfur and a scorching wind shall be the portion of their cup . For the LORD is righteous ; he loves righteous deeds ; the upright shall behold his face . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Come , bless the LORD , all you servants of the LORD , who stand in the house of the LORD ! Lift up your hands to the holy place and bless the LORD ! May the LORD bless you from Zion , he who made heaven and earth ! The heavens are the LORD 's heavens , but the earth he has given to the children of man . The dead do not praise the LORD , nor do any who go down into silence . But we will bless the LORD from this time forth and forevermore . For the scepter of wickedness shall not rest on the land allotted to the righteous , lest the righteous stretch out their hands to do wrong . Do good , O LORD , to those who are good , and to those who are upright in their hearts ! But those who turn aside to their crooked ways the LORD will lead away with evildoers ! Peace be upon Israel ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I was glad when they said to me , "Let us go to the house of the LORD ! " Our feet have been standing within your gates , O Jerusalem ! Jerusalem -built as a city that is bound firmly together , to which the tribes go up , the tribes of the LORD , as was decreed for Israel , to give thanks to the name of the LORD . I will pay my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people , in the courts of the house of our God ! Praise the LORD , for the LORD is good ; sing to his name , for it is pleasant ! For the LORD has chosen Jacob for himself , Israel as his own possession . For I know that the LORD is great , and that our Lord is above all gods . Whatever the LORD pleases , he does , in heaven and on earth , in the seas and all deeps . He it is who makes the clouds rise at the end of the earth , who makes lightnings for the rain and brings forth the wind from his storehouses . He it was who struck down the firstborn of Egypt , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and made Israel pass through the midst of it , for his steadfast love endures forever . Give thanks to the Lord of lords , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and Og , king of Bashan , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and rescued us from our foes , for his steadfast love endures forever ; a heritage to Israel his servant , for his steadfast love endures forever ; with a strong hand and an outstretched arm , for his steadfast love endures forever . Give thanks to the God of heaven , for his steadfast love endures forever . How Shall We Sing the LORD 's Song ? : By the waters of Babylon , there we sat down and wept , when we remembered Zion . On the willows there we hung up our lyres . For there our captors required of us songs , and our tormentors , mirth , saying , "Sing us one of the songs of Zion ! " How shall we sing the LORD 's song in a foreign land ? If I forget you , O Jerusalem , let my right hand forget its skill ! Let my tongue stick to the roof of my mouth , if I do not remember you , if I do not set Jerusalem above my highest joy ! Remember , O LORD , against the Edomites the day of Jerusalem , how they said , "Lay it bare , lay it bare , down to its foundations ! " O daughter of Babylon , doomed to be destroyed , blessed shall he be who repays you with what you have done to us ! Blessed shall he be who takes your little ones and dashes them against the rock ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear my prayer , O LORD ; give ear to my pleas for mercy ! In your faithfulness answer me , in your righteousness ! Enter not into judgment with your servant , for no one living is righteous before you . For the enemy has pursued my soul ; he has crushed my life to the ground ; he has made me sit in darkness like those long dead . Therefore my spirit faints within me ; my heart within me is appalled . I remember the days of old ; I meditate on all that you have done ; I ponder the work of your hands . Search Me , O God , and Know My Heart END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM How long , O LORD ? Will you be angry forever ? Will your jealousy burn like fire ? Pour out your anger on the nations that do not know you , and on the kingdoms that do not call upon your name ! For they have devoured Jacob and laid waste his habitation . Do not remember against us our former iniquities ; let your compassion come speedily to meet us , for we are brought very low . Help us , O God of our salvation , and put away your indignation toward us ! Will you be angry with us forever ? Will you prolong your anger to all generations ? Will you not revive us again , that your people may rejoice in you ? Show us your steadfast love , O LORD , be upon us , even as we hope in you . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM May the LORD answer you in the day of trouble ! May the name of the God of Jacob protect you ! May he send you help from the sanctuary and give you support from Zion ! May he remember all your offerings and regard with favor your burnt sacrifices ! Selah May he grant you your heart 's desire and fulfill all your plans ! May we shout for joy over your salvation , and in the name of our God set up our banners ! May the LORD fulfill all your petitions ! Now I know that the LORD saves his anointed ; he will answer him from his holy heaven with the saving might of his right hand . Some trust in chariots and some in horses , but we trust in the name of the LORD I cut them off ! I was pushed hard , so that I was falling , but the LORD helped me . The LORD is my strength and my song ; he has become my salvation . Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous : "The right hand of the LORD does valiantly , the right hand of the LORD does valiantly , the right hand of the LORD exalts , the right hand of the LORD does valiantly ! " I shall not die , but I shall live , and recount the deeds of the LORD . The LORD has disciplined me severely , but he has not given me over to death . Open to me the gates of righteousness , that I may enter through them and give thanks to the LORD . This is the gate of the LORD ; the righteous shall enter through it . I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation . The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone . This is the LORD 's doing ; it is marvelous in our eyes . This is the day that the LORD has made ; let us rejoice and be glad in it . Save us , we pray , O LORD ! O LORD , my Lord , the strength of my salvation , you have covered my head in the day of battle . Grant not , O LORD , the desires of the wicked ; do not further their evil plot , or they will be exalted ! Selah As for the head of those who surround me , let the mischief of their lips overwhelm them ! Let burning coals fall upon them ! Let them be cast into fire , into miry pits , no more to rise ! Let not the slanderer be established in the land ; let evil hunt down the violent man speedily ! I know that the LORD will maintain the cause of the afflicted , and will execute justice for the needy . Surely the righteous shall give thanks to your name ; the upright shall dwell in your presence . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give thanks to the LORD , for he is good ; for his steadfast love endures forever ; the sun to rule over the day , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who spread out the earth above the waters , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt , both of man and of beast ; who in your midst , O Egypt , sent signs and wonders against Pharaoh and all his servants ; who struck down many nations and killed mighty kings , Sihon , king of the Amorites , for his steadfast love endures forever ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In Judah God is known ; his name is great in Israel . His abode has been established in Salem , his dwelling place in Zion . There he broke the flashing arrows , the shield , the sword , and the weapons of war . Selah Glorious are you , more majestic than the mountains of prey . The stouthearted were stripped of their spoil ; they sank into sleep ; all the men of war were unable to use their hands . At your rebuke , O God of Jacob , both rider and horse lay stunned . But you , you are to be feared ! Who can stand before you when once your anger is roused ? From the heavens you uttered judgment ; the earth feared and was still , when God arose to establish judgment , to save all the humble of the earth . Selah Surely the wrath of man shall praise you ; the remnant of wrath you will put on like a belt . Make your vows to the LORD your God and perform them ; let all around him bring gifts to him who is to be feared , who cuts off the spirit of princes , who is to be feared by the kings of the earth . My steadfast love I will keep for him forever , and my covenant will stand firm for him . I will establish his offspring forever and his throne as the days of the heavens . If his children forsake my law and do not walk according to my rules , if they violate my statutes and do not keep my commandments , then I will punish their transgression with the rod and their iniquity with stripes , but I will not remove from him my steadfast love or be false to my faithfulness . I will not violate my covenant or alter the word that went forth from my lips . Once for all I have sworn by my holiness ; I will not lie to David . His offspring shall endure forever , his throne as long as the sun before me . Like the moon it shall be established forever , a faithful witness in the skies . " Selah But now you have cast off and rejected ; you are full of wrath against your anointed . You have renounced the covenant with your servant ; you have defiled his crown in the dust . You have breached all his walls ; you have laid his strongholds in ruins . All who pass by plunder him ; he has become the scorn of his neighbors . You have exalted the right hand of his foes ; you have made all his enemies rejoice . You have also turned back the edge of his sword , and you have not made him stand in battle . You have made his splendor to cease and cast his throne to the ground . You have cut short the days of his youth ; you have covered him with shame . Selah How long , O LORD ? Will you hide yourself forever ? How long will your wrath burn like fire ? Remember how short my time is ! For what vanity you have created all the children of man ! What man can live and never see death ? Who can deliver his soul from the power of Sheol , for he will receive me . Selah Be not afraid when a man becomes rich , when the glory of his house increases . For when he dies he will carry nothing away ; his glory will not go down after him . For though , while he lives , he counts himself blessed -and though you get praise when you do well for yourself - his soul will go to the generation of his fathers , who will never again see light . Man in his pomp yet without understanding is like the beasts that perish . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , we have heard with our ears , our fathers have told us , what deeds you performed in their days , in the days of old : you with your own hand drove out the nations , but them you planted ; you afflicted the peoples , but them you set free ; for not by their own sword did they win the land , nor did their own arm save them , but your right hand and your arm , and the light of your face , for you delighted in them . You are my King , O God ; ordain salvation for Jacob ! Through you we push down our foes ; through your name we tread down those who rise up against us . For not in my bow do I trust , nor can my sword save me . But you have saved us from our foes and have put to shame those who hate us . In God we have boasted continually , and we will give thanks to your name forever . Selah But you have rejected us and disgraced us and have not gone out with our armies . You have made us turn back from the foe , and those who hate us have gotten spoil . You have made us like sheep for slaughter and have scattered us among the nations . You have sold your people for a trifle , demanding no high price for them . You have made us the taunt of our neighbors , the derision and scorn of those around us . You have made us a byword among the nations , a laughingstock among the peoples . All day long my disgrace is before me , and shame has covered my face at the sound of the taunter and reviler , at the sight of the enemy and the avenger . When I look at your heavens , the work of your fingers , the moon and the stars , which you have set in place , what is man that you regard him , or the son of man that you care for him ? Yet you have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings and crowned him with glory and honor . You have given him dominion over the works of your hands ; you have put all things under his feet , all sheep and oxen , and also the beasts of the field , the birds of the heavens , and the fish of the sea , whatever passes along the paths of the seas . O LORD , our Lord , how majestic is your name in all the earth ! You have set your glory above the heavens . Out of the mouth of babies and infants , you have established strength because of your foes , to still the enemy and the avenger . All this has come upon us , though we have not forgotten you , and we have not been false to your covenant . Our heart has not turned back , nor have our steps departed from your way ; yet you have broken us in the place of jackals and covered us with the shadow of death . If we had forgotten the name of our God or spread out our hands to a foreign god , would not God discover this ? For he knows the secrets of the heart . Yet for your sake we are killed all the day long ; we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered . Awake ! Why are you sleeping , O Lord ? Rouse yourself ! Do not reject us forever ! Why do you hide your face ? Why do you forget our affliction and oppression ? For our soul is bowed down to the dust ; our belly clings to the ground . Rise up ; come to our help ! Redeem us for the sake of your steadfast love . For in death there is no remembrance of you ; in Sheol who will give you praise ? I am weary with my moaning ; every night I flood my bed with tears ; I drench my couch with my weeping . My eye wastes away because of grief ; it grows weak because of all my foes . Depart from me , all you workers of evil , for the LORD has heard the sound of my weeping . The LORD has heard my plea ; the LORD accepts my prayer . All my enemies shall be ashamed and greatly troubled ; they shall turn back and be put to shame in a moment . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I lift up my eyes to the hills . From where does my help come ? My help comes from the LORD , who made heaven and earth . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh come , let us sing to the LORD ; let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation ! Let us come into his presence with thanksgiving ; let us make a joyful noise to him with songs of praise ! For the LORD is a great God , and a great King above all gods . In his hand are the depths of the earth ; they shall be given over to the power of the sword ; they shall be a portion for jackals . But the king shall rejoice in God ; all who swear by him shall exult , for the mouths of liars will be stopped . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! Praise , O servants of the LORD , praise the name of the LORD ! We bless you from the house of the LORD . The LORD is God , and he has made his light to shine upon us . Bind the festal sacrifice with cords , up to the horns of the altar ! You are my God , and I will give thanks to you , O Lord my God , with my whole heart , and I will glorify your name forever . For great is your steadfast love toward me ; you have delivered my soul from death , yes , my feet from falling , that I may walk before God in the light of life . Let Your Glory Be over All the Earth END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! Blessed is the man who fears the LORD ? Him will he instruct in the way that he should choose . His soul shall abide in well -being , and his offspring shall inherit the land . The friendship of the LORD is for those who fear him , and delivers them . Oh , taste and see that the LORD is good ! Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him ! Oh , fear the LORD , you his saints , for those who fear him have no lack ! The young lions suffer want and hunger ; but those who seek the LORD lack no good thing . Come , O children , listen to me ; I will teach you the fear of the LORD . What man is there who desires life and loves many days , that he may see good ? Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit . Turn away from evil and do good ; seek peace and pursue it . The eyes of the LORD are toward the righteous and his ears toward their cry . The face of the LORD is against those who do evil , to cut off the memory of them from the earth . When the righteous cry for help , the LORD hears and delivers them out of all their troubles . The LORD is near to all who call on him , to all who call on him in truth . He fulfills the desire of those who fear him ; he also hears their cry and saves them . The LORD preserves all who love him , but all the wicked he will destroy . My mouth will speak the praise of the LORD , and let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM With my voice I cry out to the LORD ; with my voice I plead for mercy to the LORD . I pour out my complaint before him ; I tell my trouble before him . When my spirit faints within me , you know my way ! In the path where I walk they have hidden a trap for me , and with cords they have spread a net ; beside the way they have set snares for me . Selah I say to the boastful , 'Do not boast , ' and to the wicked , 'Do not lift up your horn ; do not lift up your horn on high , or speak with haughty neck . ' " For not from the east or from the west and not from the wilderness comes lifting up , but it is God who executes judgment , putting down one and lifting up another . For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup with foaming wine , well mixed , and he pours out from it , and all the wicked of the earth shall drain it down to the dregs . But I will declare it forever ; I will sing praises to my God while I have my being . Put not your trust in princes , in a son of man , in whom there is no salvation . When his breath departs , he returns to the earth ; on that very day his plans perish . Blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob , whose hope is in the LORD his God , who made heaven and earth . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed be the LORD , my rock , who trains my hands for war , and my fingers for battle ; he is my steadfast love and my fortress , my stronghold and my deliverer , my shield and he in whom I take refuge , my shield , and the horn of my salvation , my stronghold . I call upon the LORD , who is worthy to be praised , and I am saved from my enemies . The cords of death encompassed me ; the pangs of Sheol laid hold on me ; I suffered distress and anguish . Then I called on the name of the LORD . There thrones for judgment were set , the thrones of the house of David . Pray for the peace of Jerusalem ! "May they be secure who love you ! Peace be within your walls and security within your towers ! " For my brothers and companions ' sake I will say , "Peace be within you ! " For the sake of the house of the LORD our God , I will seek your good . Our Eyes Look to the LORD Our God END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Shout for joy to God , all the earth ; sing the glory of his name ; give to him glorious praise ! Say to God , "How awesome are your deeds ! So great is your power that your enemies come cringing to you . All the earth worships you and sings praises to you ; they sing praises to your name . " Selah Come and see what God has done : he is awesome in his deeds toward the children of man . He turned the sea into dry land ; they passed through the river on foot . There did we rejoice in him , who rules by his might forever , whose eyes keep watch on the nations - let not the rebellious exalt themselves . Selah Bless our God , O peoples ; let the sound of his praise be heard , who has kept our soul among the living and has not let our feet slip . For you , O God , have heard my vows ; you have given me the heritage of those who fear your name . Prolong the life of the king ; may his years endure to all generations ! May he be like rain that falls on the mown grass , like showers that water the earth ! In his days may the righteous flourish , and peace abound , till the moon be no more ! May he have dominion from sea to sea , and from the River to the ends of the earth . Selah Each evening they come back , howling like dogs and prowling about the city . There they are , bellowing with their mouths with swords in their lips - for "Who , " they think , "will hear us ? " But you , O LORD , laugh at them ; you hold all the nations in derision . O my Strength , I will watch for you , for you , O God , are my fortress , the God who shows me steadfast love . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Not to us , O LORD , not to us , but to your name give glory , for the sake of your steadfast love . For in death there is no remembrance of you ; in Sheol who will give you praise ? I am weary with my moaning ; every night I flood my bed with tears ; I drench my couch with my weeping . My eye wastes away because of grief ; it grows weak because of all my foes . Depart from me , all you workers of evil , for the LORD has heard the sound of my weeping . The LORD has heard my plea ; the LORD accepts my prayer . All my enemies shall be ashamed and greatly troubled ; they shall turn back and be put to shame in a moment . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Incline your ear , O LORD , and answer me , for I am poor and needy . Preserve my life , for I am godly ; save your servant , who trusts in you -you are my God . Be gracious to me , O God , for man tramples on me ; all day long an attacker oppresses me ; my enemies trample on me all day long , for many attack me proudly . When I am afraid , I put my trust in you . In God , whose word I praise , in God I trust ; I shall not be afraid . What can flesh do to me ? All day long they injure my cause ; all their thoughts are against me for evil . They stir up strife , they lurk ; they watch my steps , as they have waited for my life . For their crime will they escape ? In wrath cast down the peoples , O God ! You have kept count of my tossings ; put my tears in your bottle . Are they not in your book ? Then my enemies will turn back in the day when I call . This I know , that God is for me . In God , whose word I praise , in God I trust ; I shall not be afraid . What can flesh do to me ? All day long they injure my cause ; all their thoughts are against me for evil . They stir up strife , they lurk ; they watch my steps , as they have waited for my life . For their crime will they escape ? In wrath cast down the peoples , O God ! You have kept count of my tossings ; put my tears in your bottle . Are they not in your book ? Then my enemies will turn back in the day when I call ! For my days pass away like smoke , and my bones burn like a furnace . My heart is struck down like grass and has withered ; I forget to eat my bread . Because of my loud groaning my bones cling to my flesh . I am like a desert owl of the wilderness , like an owl of the waste places ; I lie awake ; I am like a lonely sparrow on the housetop . All the day my enemies taunt me ; those who deride me use my name for a curse . For I eat ashes like bread and mingle tears with my drink , because of your indignation and anger ; for you have taken me up and thrown me down . My days are like an evening shadow ; I wither away like grass . But you , O LORD , be gracious to me ; heal me , for I have sinned against you ! " My enemies say of me in malice , "When will he die , and his name perish ? " And when one comes to see me , he utters empty words , while his heart gathers iniquity ; when he goes out , he tells it abroad . All who hate me whisper together about me ; they imagine the worst for me . They say , "A deadly thing is poured out on him ; he will not rise again from where he lies . " Even my close friend in whom I trusted , who ate my bread , has lifted his heel against me . But you , O LORD -how long ? Turn , O LORD , deliver my life ; save me for the sake of your steadfast love and your faithfulness , for you have exalted above all things your name and your word . On the day I called , you answered me ; my strength of soul you increased . All the kings of the earth shall give you thanks , O LORD , for they have heard the words of your mouth , and they shall sing of the ways of the LORD , and have not wickedly departed from my God . For all his rules were before me , and his statutes I did not put away from me . I was blameless before him , and I kept myself from my guilt . So the LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness , according to the cleanness of my hands in his sight . With the merciful you show yourself merciful ; with the blameless man you show yourself blameless ; with the purified you show yourself pure ; and with the crooked you make yourself seem tortuous . For you save a humble people , but the haughty eyes you bring down . For it is you who light my lamp ; the LORD my God lightens my darkness . For by you I can run against a troop , and by my God I can leap over a wall . This God -his way is perfect ; the word of the LORD proves true ; he is a shield for all those who take refuge in him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The heavens declare the glory of God , and the sky above proclaims his handiwork . Day to day pours out speech , and night to night reveals knowledge . There is no speech , nor are there words , whose voice is not heard . Their voice goes out through all the earth , and their words to the end of the world . In them he has set a tent for the sun , which comes out like a bridegroom leaving his chamber , and , like a strong man , runs its course with joy . Its rising is from the end of the heavens , and its circuit to the end of them , and there is nothing hidden from its heat . The law of the LORD is perfect , reviving the soul ; the testimony of the LORD is sure , making wise the simple ; the precepts of the LORD are right , rejoicing the heart ; the commandment of the LORD is pure , enlightening the eyes ; the fear of the LORD is clean , enduring forever ; the rules of the LORD are true , and righteous altogether . More to be desired are they than gold , even much fine gold ; sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb . Moreover , by them is your servant warned ; in keeping them there is great reward . Who can discern his errors ? Declare me innocent from hidden faults . Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins ; let them not have dominion over me ! Then I shall be blameless , and innocent of great transgression . Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight , O LORD , my rock and my redeemer . Trust in the Name of the LORD Our God END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear a just cause , O LORD ; attend to my cry ! Give ear to my prayer from lips free of deceit ! From your presence let my vindication come ! Let your eyes behold the right ! You have tried my heart , you have visited me by night , you have tested me , and you will find nothing ; I have purposed that my mouth will not transgress . With regard to the works of man , by the word of your lips I have avoided the ways of the violent . My steps have held fast to your paths ; my feet have not slipped . I call upon you , for you answer me . There is none like you among the gods , O Lord , nor are there any works like yours . All the nations you have made shall come and worship before you , O Lord , and shall glorify your name . For you are great and do wondrous things ; you alone are God . Teach me your way , O LORD , and lead me on a level path because of my enemies . Give me not up to the will of my adversaries ; for false witnesses have risen against me , and they breathe out violence . I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the LORD in the land of the living . " Attend to my cry , for I am brought very low ! Deliver me from my persecutors , for they are too strong for me ! Bring me out of prison , that I may give thanks to your name ! The righteous will surround me , for you will deal bountifully with me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Be gracious to me , O LORD , for I have walked in my integrity , and I have trusted in the LORD without wavering . Prove me , O LORD , and try me ; test my heart and my mind . For your steadfast love is before my eyes , and I walk in your faithfulness . I do not sit with men of falsehood , nor do I consort with hypocrites . I hate the assembly of evildoers , and I will not sit with the wicked . I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar , O LORD , proclaiming thanksgiving aloud , and telling all your wondrous deeds . O LORD , I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells . Do not sweep my soul away with sinners , nor my life with bloodthirsty men , in whose hands are evil devices , and whose right hands are full of bribes . But as for me , I shall walk in my integrity ; redeem me , and be gracious to me . My foot stands on level ground ; in the great assembly I will bless the LORD . The LORD Is My Light and My Salvation END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I give you thanks , O LORD , with my whole heart ; before the gods I sing your praise ; I bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name for your steadfast love and your faithfulness , for you have exalted above all things your name and your word . On the day I called , you answered me ; my strength of soul you increased . All the kings of the earth shall give you thanks , O LORD , for they have heard the words of your mouth , and they shall sing of the ways of the LORD , for great is the glory of the LORD . For though the LORD is high , he regards the lowly , but the haughty he knows from afar . Though I walk in the midst of trouble , you preserve my life ; you stretch out your hand against the wrath of my enemies , and your right hand delivers me . The LORD will fulfill his purpose for me ; your steadfast love , O LORD , held me up . When the cares of my heart are many , your consolations cheer my soul . Can wicked rulers be allied with you , those who frame injustice by statute ? They band together against the life of the righteous and condemn the innocent to death . But the LORD has become my stronghold , and my God the rock of my refuge . He will bring back on them their iniquity and wipe them out for their wickedness ; the LORD our God will wipe them out . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Why do you boast of evil , O mighty man ? The steadfast love of God endures all the day . Your tongue plots destruction , like a sharp razor , you worker of deceit . You love evil more than good , and lying more than speaking what is right . Selah You love all words that devour , O deceitful tongue . But God will break you down forever ; he will snatch and tear you from your tent ; he will uproot you from the land of the living . I believed , even when I spoke , "I am greatly afflicted " ; I said in my alarm , "All mankind are liars . " What shall I render to the LORD for all his benefits to me ? I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on the name of the LORD , I will pay my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people , in the courts of the house of our God ! Praise the LORD , for the LORD is good ; sing to his name , for it is pleasant ! For the LORD has chosen Jacob for himself , Israel as his own possession . For I know that the LORD is great , and that our Lord is above all gods . Whatever the LORD pleases , he does , in heaven and on earth , in the seas and all deeps . He it is who makes the clouds rise at the end of the earth , who makes lightnings for the rain and brings forth the wind from his storehouses . He it was who struck down the firstborn of Egypt , for his steadfast love endures forever ! END_PSALM
