BEGIN_PSALM To you , O LORD , laugh at them ; you hold all the nations in derision . O my Strength , I will sing praises to you among the nations . For your steadfast love is great above the heavens ; your faithfulness reaches to the clouds . Be exalted , O God , above the heavens ! Let your glory be over all the earth ! They set a net for my steps ; my soul was bowed down . They dug a pit in my way , but they have fallen into it themselves . Selah My heart is steadfast , O God , my God . Why are you cast down , O my soul , and why are you in turmoil within me ? Hope in God ; for I shall again praise him , my salvation and my God . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Why do you boast of evil , O mighty man ? The steadfast love of God endures all the day . Your tongue plots destruction , like a sharp razor , you worker of deceit . You love evil more than good , and lying more than speaking what is right . Selah You love all words that devour , O deceitful tongue . But God will break you down forever ; he will snatch and tear you from your tent ; he will uproot you from the land of Jordan and of Hermon , from Mount Mizar . Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls ; all your breakers and your waves have gone over me . By day the LORD commands his steadfast love , and at night his song is with me , a prayer to the God of my life . I say to God , my rock : "Why have you forgotten me ? Why do I go about mourning because of the oppression of the enemy ? " As with a deadly wound in my bones , my adversaries taunt me , while they say to me all the day long , "Where is your God ? " These things I remember , as I pour out my soul : how I would go with the throng and lead them in procession to the house of God with glad shouts and songs of praise , a multitude keeping festival . Why are you cast down , O my soul , and forget not all his benefits , who forgives all your iniquity , who heals all your diseases , who redeems your life from the pit , who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy , who satisfies you with good so that your youth is renewed like the eagle 's . The LORD works righteousness and justice for all who are oppressed . He made known his ways to Moses , his acts to the people of Israel . The LORD is merciful and gracious , slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love . The LORD is good to all , and his mercy is over all that he has made . All your works shall give thanks to you , O God ; let them fall by their own counsels ; because of the abundance of their transgressions cast them out , for they have rebelled against you . But let all who take refuge in you rejoice ; let them ever sing for joy , and spread your protection over them , that those who love your name . Keep steady my steps according to your promise , that I may live and keep your word . Open my eyes , that I may behold wondrous things out of your law . I am a sojourner on the earth ; hide not your commandments from me ! My soul is consumed with longing for your rules at all times . You rebuke the insolent , accursed ones , who wander from your commandments . Take away from me scorn and contempt , for I have kept your testimonies . Even though princes sit plotting against me , your servant will meditate on your statutes . Your testimonies are my heritage forever , for they are the joy of my heart . I incline my heart to perform your statutes forever , to the end . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise is due to you , O God ; we give thanks , for your name is near . We recount your wondrous deeds . "At the set time that I appoint I will judge with equity . When the earth totters , and all its inhabitants , it is I who keep steady its pillars . Selah I say to the boastful , 'Do not boast , ' and to the wicked , 'Do not lift up your horn ; do not lift up your horn ; do not lift up your horn ; do not lift up your horn ; do not lift up your horn ; do not lift up your horn ; do not lift up your horn on high , or speak with haughty neck . ' " For not from the east or from the west and not from the wilderness comes lifting up , but it is God who executes judgment , putting down one and lifting up another . For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup with foaming wine , well mixed , and he pours out from it , and all the wicked of the earth shall drain it down to the dregs . But I will declare it forever ; I will sing praises to you among the nations . For your steadfast love is great to the heavens , your faithfulness to the clouds . Be exalted , O LORD , in the morning you hear my voice ; in the morning I prepare a sacrifice for you and watch . For you are not a God who delights in wickedness ; evil may not dwell with you . The boastful shall not stand before your eyes ; you hate all evildoers . You destroy those who speak lies ; the LORD abhors the bloodthirsty and deceitful man . But I , through the abundance of your steadfast love , for in you I trust . Make me know the way I should go , for to you I lift up my eyes to the hills . From where does my help come ? My help comes from the LORD , who made heaven and earth ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Yodh Your hands have made and fashioned me ; give me understanding that I may live . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Truly God is good to Israel , to those who are pure in heart . But as for me , I will meditate on your wondrous works . My soul melts away for sorrow ; strengthen me according to your word ! When I told of my ways , you answered me ; my strength of soul you increased . All the kings of the earth shall give you thanks , O LORD , with your faithfulness all around you ? You rule the raging of the sea ; when its waves rise , you still them . You crushed Rahab like a carcass ; you scattered your enemies with your mighty arm . The heavens are yours ; the earth also is yours ; the world and all that is in them , who keeps faith forever ; who executes justice for the oppressed , who gives food to the hungry . The LORD sets the prisoners free ; the LORD opens the eyes of the blind . The LORD lifts up those who are bowed down ; the LORD loves the gates of Zion more than all the dwelling places of Jacob . Glorious things of you are spoken , O city of God . Selah Among those who know me I mention Rahab and Babylon ; behold , Philistia and Tyre , with Cush - "This one was born there . " Selah Singers and dancers alike say , "All my springs are in you . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD says to my Lord : "Sit at my right hand , I shall not be shaken . Therefore my heart is glad , and my whole being rejoices ; my flesh also dwells secure . For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol , or let your holy one see corruption . You make known to me the path of life ; in your light do we see light . Oh , continue your steadfast love to those who know you , and your righteousness to the upright of heart ! Let not the foot of arrogance come upon me , nor the hand of the wicked drive me away . There the evildoers lie fallen ; they are thrust down , unable to rise . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear my cry , O God , listen to my prayer ; from the end of the heavens , and its circuit to the end of them , and there is nothing hidden from its heat . The law of the LORD is perfect , reviving the soul ; the testimony of the LORD is sure , making wise the simple ; the precepts of the LORD are right , rejoicing the heart ; the commandment of the LORD is pure , enlightening the eyes ; the fear of the LORD is clean , enduring forever ; the rules of the LORD are true , and righteous altogether . More to be desired are they than gold , even much fine gold ; sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb . Moreover , by them is your servant warned ; in keeping them there is great reward . Who can discern his errors ? Declare me innocent from hidden faults . Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins ; let them not have dominion over me ! Then I shall be blameless , and innocent of great transgression . Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart shall be understanding . I will incline my ear to a proverb ; I will solve my riddle to the music of the lute and the harp , to the melody of the lyre . For you , O LORD , I call ; my rock , be not deaf to me , lest , if you be silent to me , I become like those who go down to the pit . Hear the voice of my pleas for mercy , when I cry to you for help , when I lift up my hands toward your commandments , which I love . I will lift up my hands toward your commandments , which I love , and I will meditate on your precepts . Let those who fear you turn to me , that they may know that God rules over Jacob to the ends of the earth and of the farthest seas ; the one who by his strength established the mountains , being girded with might ; who stills the roaring of the seas , the roaring of their waves , the tumult of the peoples , so that those who hated them ruled over them . Their enemies oppressed them , and they were brought into subjection under their power . Many times he delivered them , but they were rebellious in their purposes and were brought low through their iniquity . Nevertheless , he looked upon their distress , when he heard their cry . For their sake he remembered his covenant , and relented according to the abundance of his steadfast love . He caused them to be pitied by all those who held them captive . Save us , O LORD our God , you answered them ; you were a forgiving God to them , but an avenger of their wrongdoings . Exalt the LORD our God , and worship at his holy mountain ; for the LORD our God is holy ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM It is good to give thanks to the LORD , for he is good , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who divided the Red Sea in two , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who spread out the earth above the waters , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt , both of man and of beast ; who in your midst , O Jerusalem . Praise the LORD ! Give Thanks to the LORD , for he is good , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and Og , king of Bashan , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and brought Israel out from among them , for his steadfast love endures forever ; with a strong hand and an outstretched arm , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and rescued us from our foes , for his steadfast love endures forever ; the sun to rule over the day , for his steadfast love endures forever . Give thanks to the God of heaven , for his steadfast love endures forever . How Shall We Sing the LORD 's Song ? : By the waters of Babylon , there we sat down and wept , when we remembered Zion . On the willows there we hung up our lyres . For there our captors required of us songs , and our tormentors , mirth , saying , "Sing us one of the songs of Zion ! " How shall we sing the LORD 's song in a foreign land ? If I forget you , O Jerusalem , let my right hand forget its skill ! Let my tongue stick to the roof of my mouth , if I do not remember you , if I do not remember you , if I do not set Jerusalem above my highest joy ! Remember , O LORD , in your anger ; lift yourself up against the fury of my enemies ; awake for me ; you have appointed a judgment . Let the assembly of the peoples be gathered about you ; over it return on high . The LORD judges the peoples ; judge me , O LORD , for they have heard the words of your mouth , and they shall sing of the ways of the LORD , and on his law he meditates day and night . He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season , and its leaf does not wither . In all that he does , he prospers . The wicked are not so , but are like chaff that the wind drives away . Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment , nor sinners in the congregation of the people , and praise him in the assembly of the elders . He turns rivers into a desert , springs of water into thirsty ground , a fruitful land into a salty waste , because of the evil of its inhabitants . He turns a desert into pools of water , a parched land into springs of water . And there he lets the hungry dwell , and they establish a city to live in ; they sow fields and plant vineyards and get a fruitful yield . By his blessing they multiply greatly , and he does not let their livestock diminish . When they are diminished and brought low through oppression , evil , and sorrow , he pours contempt on princes and makes them wander in trackless wastes ; but he raises up the needy out of affliction and makes their families like flocks . The upright see it and are glad , and all wickedness shuts its mouth . Whoever is wise , let him attend to these things ; let them consider the steadfast love of the LORD . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM How long , O LORD ? Will you hide yourself forever ? How long will you hide your face from me ? Afflicted and close to death from my youth up , I suffer your terrors ; I am helpless . Your wrath has swept over me ; your dreadful assaults destroy me . They surround me like a flood all day long ; they close in on me together . You have caused my beloved and my friend to shun me ; my companions have become darkness . I Will Sing of the Steadfast Love of the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Shout for joy in the LORD , O you his angels , you mighty ones who do his word , obeying the voice of his word ! Bless the LORD , all his hosts , his ministers , who do his will ! Bless the LORD , O you his angels , you mighty ones who do his word , obeying the voice of his word ! Bless the LORD , all his works , in all places of his dominion . Bless the LORD , O my soul , and why are you in turmoil within me ? Hope in God ; for I shall again praise him , my salvation and my God . My soul is cast down within me ; therefore I remember you from the land of Jordan and of Hermon , from Mount Mizar . Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls ; all your breakers and your waves have gone over me . By day the LORD commands his steadfast love , and at night his song is with me , a prayer to the God of my life . I say to God , my rock : "Why have you forgotten me ? Why do I go about mourning because of the oppression of the wicked . For they have no pangs until death ; their bodies are fat and sleek . They are not in trouble as others are ; they are not stricken like the rest of mankind . Therefore pride is their necklace ; violence covers them as a garment . Their eyes swell out through fatness ; their hearts overflow with follies . They scoff and speak with malice ; loftily they threaten oppression . They set their mouths against the heavens , and their tongue struts through the earth . Therefore his people turn back to them , and find no fault in them . And they say , "How can God know ? Is there knowledge in the Most High ? " Behold , these are the wicked ; always at ease , they increase in riches . All in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence . For all the day long I have been stricken and rebuked every morning . If I had said , "I will speak thus , " I would have betrayed the generation of your children . But when I thought how to understand this , it seemed to me a wearisome task , until I went into the sanctuary of God ; then I discerned their end . Truly you set them in slippery places ; you make them fall to ruin . How they are destroyed in a moment , swept away utterly by terrors ! Like a dream when one awakes , O Lord , when you rouse yourself , you despise them as phantoms . When my soul was embittered , when I was pricked in heart , I was brutish and ignorant ; I was like a beast toward you . Nevertheless , I am continually with you ; you hold my right hand . You guide me with your counsel , and afterward you will receive me to glory . Whom have I in heaven but you ? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you . My flesh and my heart may fail , but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever . For behold , your enemies , O LORD , for the godly one is gone ; for the faithful have vanished from among the children of man . The dead do not praise the LORD , nor do any who go down into silence . But we will bless the LORD from this time forth and forevermore . For the scepter of wickedness shall not rest on the land allotted to the righteous , lest the righteous stretch out their hands to do wrong . Do good , O LORD , to those who are good , and to those who are upright in their hearts ! But those who turn aside to their crooked ways the LORD will lead away with evildoers ! Peace be upon Israel ! They Have Afflicted Me from My Youth END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Lord , you have been our dwelling place in all generations . Before the mountains were brought forth , or ever you had formed the earth and the world , from everlasting to everlasting you are God . You return man to dust and say , "Return , O children of man ! " For a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is past , or as a watch in the night . You sweep them away as with a flood ; they are like a dream , like grass that is renewed in the morning : in the morning it flourishes and is renewed ; in the evening it fades and withers . For we are brought to an end by your anger ; by your wrath we are dismayed . You have set our iniquities before you , our secret sins in the light of your face upon us , O LORD ! " You have put more joy in my heart than they have when their grain and wine abound . In peace I will both lie down and sleep ; for you alone , O LORD , make me dwell in safety . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed is everyone who fears the LORD , who walks in his ways ! You have commanded your precepts to be kept diligently . Oh that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes ! Then I shall not be put to shame when he speaks with his enemies in the gate . Blessed Is Everyone Who Fears the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD reigns , let the earth rejoice ; let the many coastlands be glad ! Clouds and thick darkness are all around him ; righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne . Fire goes before him and burns up his adversaries all around . His lightnings light up the world ; the earth sees and trembles . The mountains melt like wax before the LORD , before the Lord of all the earth . The heavens proclaim his righteousness , and all the peoples see his glory . All worshipers of images are put to shame , who make their boast in worthless idols ; worship him , all you gods ! Zion hears and is glad , and the daughters of Judah rejoice , because of your judgments , O LORD . For you , O God , have tested us ; you have tried us as silver is tried . You brought us into the net ; you laid a crushing burden on our backs ; you let men ride over our heads ; we went through fire and through water ; yet you have brought us out to a place of abundance . I will come into your house with burnt offerings ; I will perform my vows to you , that which my lips uttered and my mouth promised when I was in trouble . I will offer to you burnt offerings of fattened animals , with the smoke of the sacrifice of rams ; I will make an offering of bulls and goats . Selah Come and hear , all you who fear God , and I will give thanks to you ; you are my God ; earnestly I seek you ; my soul thirsts for you like a parched land . Selah Answer me quickly , O LORD ! My spirit fails ! Hide not your face from your servant ; for I am in distress ; my eye is wasted from grief ; my soul and my body also . For my life is spent with sorrow , and my years with sighing ; my strength fails because of my iniquity , and my bones waste away . Because of all my adversaries I have become a reproach , especially to my neighbors , and an object of dread to my acquaintances ; those who see me in the street flee from me . I have been forgotten like one who is dead ; I have become like a wineskin in the smoke , yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken or his children begging for bread . He is ever lending generously , and his children become a blessing . Turn away from evil and do good ; so shall you dwell forever . For the LORD loves justice ; he will not forsake his saints . They are preserved forever , but the children of the wicked shall be broken , but the LORD upholds the righteous . The LORD knows the days of the blameless , and their heritage will remain forever ; they are not put to shame in evil times ; in the days of famine they have abundance . But the wicked will perish ; the enemies of the LORD are like the glory of the pastures ; they vanish -like smoke they vanish away . The wicked borrows but does not pay back , but the righteous is generous and gives ; for those blessed by the LORD shall inherit the land . The friendship of the LORD is for those who fear him , and delivers them . Oh , taste and see that the LORD is good ! Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked , nor stands in the way of sinners , nor sits in the seat of scoffers ; but his delight is in the law of the LORD ! Blessed are those who keep his testimonies , who seek him with their whole heart , who also do no wrong , but walk in his ways ! You shall eat the fruit of the labor of your hands ; you have put all things under his feet , all sheep and oxen , and also the beasts of the field , the birds of the heavens for food , the flesh of your faithful to the beasts of the earth . They have poured out their blood like water all around Jerusalem , and there was no one to bury them . We have become a taunt to our neighbors , mocked and derided by those around us . How long , O Lord , will you look on ? Rescue me from their destruction , my precious life from the power of the enemy . And the waters covered their adversaries ; not one of them is broken . Affliction will slay the wicked , and those who hate us have gotten spoil . You have made us a byword among the nations , a laughingstock among the peoples . All day long my disgrace is before me , and shame has covered my face at the sound of the taunter and reviler , at the sight of the enemy and the avenger . All this has come upon us , though we have not forgotten you , and we have not been false to your covenant . Our heart has not turned back , nor have our steps departed from your way ; yet you have broken us in the place of jackals and covered us with the shadow of death . If we had forgotten the name of our God or spread out our hands to a foreign god , would not God discover this ? For he knows the secrets of the heart . Yet for your sake we are killed all the day long ; we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered . Awake ! Why are you sleeping , O Lord ? Rouse yourself ! Do not reject us forever ! Why do you hide your face from me in the day of trouble ; he will conceal me under the cover of his tent ; he will lift me high upon a rock . And now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me , and I will make the nations your heritage , and the ends of the earth fear him ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In my distress I called to the LORD , and he answered me and delivered me from all my fears . Those who look to him are radiant , and their faces shall never be ashamed . This poor man cried , and the LORD heard him and saved him out of all his troubles . The angel of the LORD encamps around those who fear him , and he makes known to them his covenant . My eyes are ever toward the LORD , for he will pluck my feet out of the net . Turn to me and be gracious to me , for I am lonely and afflicted . The troubles of my heart are enlarged ; bring me out of my distresses . Consider my affliction and my trouble , and forgive all my sins . Consider how many are my foes , and with what violent hatred they hate me . Oh , guard my soul , and deliver me ! Let me not be put to shame ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Qoph With my whole heart I cry ; answer me , O LORD ! See my affliction from those who hate me , O you who lift me up from the gates of death , that I may recount all your praises , that in the gates of the daughter of Zion I may rejoice in your salvation . I will sing to the LORD , all the earth ! Sing to the LORD a new song ; sing to the LORD , because he has dealt bountifully with me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! Blessed is the man who makes the LORD his trust , who does not turn to the proud , to those who go astray after a lie ! You have multiplied , O LORD my God , in you do I take refuge ; save me from all my pursuers and deliver me , lest like a lion they tear my soul apart , rending it in pieces , with none to deliver . O LORD my God , I will give thanks to you ; you are my God ; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob ! Raise a song ; sound the tambourine , the sweet lyre with the harp . Blow the trumpet at the new moon , at the full moon , on our feast day . For it is a statute for Israel , a rule of the God of Jacob . All the horns of the wicked I will cut off , but the horns of the righteous shall be lifted up . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , you have rejected us , broken our defenses ; you have been angry ; oh , restore us . You have made the land to quake ; you have torn it open ; repair its breaches , for it totters . You have made your people see hard things ; you have given us wine to drink that made us stagger . You have set up a banner for those who fear you and worked for those who take refuge in him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed be the LORD , my rock , who trains my hands for war , so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze . You have given me the shield of your salvation , and your right hand shall hold me . If I say , "Surely the darkness shall cover me , and the light about me be night , " even the darkness is not dark to you ; the night is bright as the day , for darkness is as light with you . For you have delivered my soul from death , yes , my feet from falling , that I may walk in your truth ; unite my heart to fear your name . I give thanks to you , O LORD , be upon us , even as we hope in you . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Fret not yourself because of evildoers ; be not envious of wrongdoers ! For they will soon fade like the grass and wither like the green herb . Trust in the LORD , and he will give you the desires of your heart . Commit your way to the LORD ; trust in him , and he will act . He will bring forth your righteousness as the light , and your justice as the noonday . Be still before the LORD and wait patiently for him ; fret not yourself over the one who prospers in his way , over the man who carries out evil devices ! Refrain from anger , and forsake wrath ! Fret not yourself ; it tends only to evil . For the evildoers shall be cut off , but those who wait for the LORD ! The LORD 's Faithfulness Endures Forever : Praise the LORD , all nations ! Extol him , all peoples ! For great is the LORD , and righteous ; our God is merciful . The LORD preserves the simple ; when I was brought low , he saved me . Return , O my soul , wait in silence , for my hope is in your rules . I will keep your law continually , forever and ever , and I shall walk in a wide place , for I have sought your precepts . I will also speak of your testimonies before kings and shall not be put to shame in a moment . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Why do you boast of evil , O mighty man ? The steadfast love of God endures all the day . Your tongue plots destruction , like a sharp razor , you worker of deceit . You love evil more than good , and lying more than speaking what is right . Selah You love all words that devour , O deceitful tongue . But God will break you down forever ; he will snatch and tear you from your tent ; he will uproot you from the land of Jordan and of Hermon , from Mount Mizar . Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls ; all your breakers and your waves have gone over me . By day the LORD commands his steadfast love , and at night his song is with me , a prayer to the God of my life . I say to God , my rock : "Why have you forgotten me ? Why do I go about mourning because of the oppression of the enemy ? " As with a deadly wound in my bones , my adversaries taunt me , while they say to me all the day long , "Where is your God ? " These things I remember , as I pour out my soul : how I would go with the throng and lead them in procession to the house of God with glad shouts and songs of praise , a multitude keeping festival . Why are you cast down , O my soul , and forget not all his benefits , who forgives all your iniquity , who heals all your diseases , who redeems your life from the pit , who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy , who satisfies you with good so that your youth is renewed like the eagle 's . The LORD works righteousness and justice for all who are oppressed . He made known his ways to Moses , his acts to the people of Israel . The LORD is merciful and gracious , slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love . The LORD is good to all , and his mercy is over all that he has made . All your works shall give thanks to you , O God ; let them fall by their own counsels ; because of the abundance of their transgressions cast them out , for they have rebelled against you . But let all who take refuge in you rejoice ; let them ever sing for joy , and spread your protection over them , that those who love your name . Keep steady my steps according to your promise , that I may live and keep your word . Open my eyes , that I may behold wondrous things out of your law . I am a sojourner on the earth ; hide not your commandments from me ! My soul is consumed with longing for your rules at all times . You rebuke the insolent , accursed ones , who wander from your commandments . Take away from me scorn and contempt , for I have kept your testimonies . Even though princes sit plotting against me , your servant will meditate on your statutes . Your testimonies are my heritage forever , for they are the joy of my heart . I incline my heart to perform your statutes forever , to the end . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! I will give thanks to the LORD , for he has wondrously shown his steadfast love to me when I was in a besieged city . I had said in my alarm , "All mankind are liars . " What shall I render to the LORD for all his benefits to me ? I will walk with integrity of heart within my house ; I will not set before my eyes anything that is worthless . I hate the work of those who fall away ; it shall not cling to me . A perverse heart shall be far from me ; I will know nothing of evil . Whoever slanders his neighbor secretly I will destroy . Whoever has a haughty look and an arrogant heart I will not endure . I will look with favor on the faithful in the land , that they may dwell with me ; he who walks in the way that is blameless shall minister to me . No one who practices deceit shall dwell in my house ; no one who utters lies shall continue before my eyes . Morning by morning I will destroy all the wicked in the land , cutting off all the evildoers from the city of the LORD . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD reigns , let the earth rejoice ; let the many coastlands be glad ! Clouds and thick darkness are all around him ; righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne . Fire goes before him and burns up his adversaries all around . His lightnings light up the world ; the earth sees and trembles . The mountains melt like wax before the LORD , before the Lord of all the earth . The heavens proclaim his righteousness , and all the peoples see his glory . All worshipers of images are put to shame , who make their boast in worthless idols ; worship him , all you gods ! Zion hears and is glad , and the daughters of Judah rejoice , because of your judgments , O LORD . For you , O God , have tested us ; you have tried us as silver is tried . You brought us into the net ; you laid a crushing burden on our backs ; you let men ride over our heads ; we went through fire and through water ; yet you have brought us out to a place of abundance . I will come into your house with burnt offerings ; I will perform my vows to you , that which my lips uttered and my mouth promised when I was in trouble . I will offer to you burnt offerings of fattened animals , with the smoke of the sacrifice of rams ; I will make an offering of bulls and goats . Selah Come and hear , all you who fear God , and I will give thanks to you ; you are my God ; earnestly I seek you ; my soul thirsts for you like a parched land . Selah Answer me quickly , O LORD ! My spirit fails ! Hide not your face from your servant ; for I am in distress ; my eye is wasted from grief ; my soul and my body also . For my life is spent with sorrow , and my years with sighing ; my strength fails because of my iniquity , and my bones waste away . Because of all my adversaries I have become a reproach , especially to my neighbors , and an object of dread to my acquaintances ; those who see me in the street flee from me . I have been forgotten like one who is dead ; I have become like a wineskin in the smoke , yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken or his children begging for bread . He is ever lending generously , and his children become a blessing . Turn away from evil and do good ; so shall you dwell forever . For the LORD loves justice ; he will not forsake his saints . They are preserved forever , but the children of the wicked shall be broken , but the LORD upholds the righteous . The LORD knows the days of the blameless , and their heritage will remain forever ; they are not put to shame in evil times ; in the days of famine they have abundance . But the wicked will perish ; the enemies of the LORD are like the glory of the pastures ; they vanish -like smoke they vanish away . The wicked borrows but does not pay back , but the righteous is generous and gives ; for those blessed by the LORD shall inherit the land . The friendship of the LORD is for those who fear him , and delivers them . Oh , taste and see that the LORD is good ! Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked , nor stands in the way of sinners , nor sits in the seat of scoffers ; but his delight is in the law of the LORD ! Blessed are those who keep his testimonies , who seek him with their whole heart , who also do no wrong , but walk in his ways ! You shall eat the fruit of the labor of your hands ; you have put all things under his feet , all sheep and oxen , and also the beasts of the field , the birds of the heavens for food , the flesh of your faithful to the beasts of the earth . They have poured out their blood like water all around Jerusalem , and there was no one to bury them . We have become a taunt to our neighbors , mocked and derided by those around us . How long , O Lord , will you look on ? Rescue me from their destruction , my precious life from the power of the enemy . And the waters covered their adversaries ; not one of them is broken . Affliction will slay the wicked , and those who hate us have gotten spoil . You have made us a byword among the nations , a laughingstock among the peoples . All day long my disgrace is before me , and shame has covered my face at the sound of the taunter and reviler , at the sight of the enemy and the avenger . All this has come upon us , though we have not forgotten you , and we have not been false to your covenant . Our heart has not turned back , nor have our steps departed from your way ; yet you have broken us in the place of jackals and covered us with the shadow of death . If we had forgotten the name of our God or spread out our hands to a foreign god , would not God discover this ? For he knows the secrets of the heart . Yet for your sake we are killed all the day long ; we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered . Awake ! Why are you sleeping , O Lord ? Rouse yourself ! Do not reject us forever ! Why do you hide your face from me in the day of trouble ; he will conceal me under the cover of his tent ; he will lift me high upon a rock . And now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me , and I will make the nations your heritage , and the ends of the earth fear him ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear my prayer , O LORD ; give ear to my pleas for mercy ! If you , O LORD , do I wait ; it is you , O Lord my God , who will answer . For I said , "Steadfast love will be built up forever ; in the heavens you will establish your faithfulness . " You have said , "I have made a covenant with my chosen one ; I have sworn to David my servant : 'I will establish your offspring forever , and build your throne for all generations . ' " Selah Let the heavens praise your wonders , O LORD , your salvation according to your promise ; then shall I have an answer for him who taunts me , for I trust in your word . And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth , for my hope is in your rules . I will keep your law continually , forever and ever , and I shall walk in a wide place , for I have sought your precepts . I will also speak of your testimonies before kings and shall not be put to shame ; in your righteousness deliver me ! Incline your ear to me ; rescue me speedily ! Be a rock of refuge for me , a strong fortress to save me ! For you are my rock and my fortress ; and for your name 's sake ! Why should the nations say , "Where is their God ? " Our God is in the heavens ; he does all that he pleases . Their idols are silver and gold , the work of human hands . They have mouths , but do not speak ; eyes , but do not see . They have ears , but do not hear ; noses , but do not smell . They have hands , but do not feel ; feet , but do not walk ; and they do not make a sound in their throat . Those who make them become like them , so do all who trust in them . O Israel , trust in the LORD ! He is their help and their shield . O house of Aaron , trust in the LORD ! He is their help and their shield . You who fear the LORD , both the small and the great . May the LORD give you increase , you and your children ! May you be blessed by the LORD , who made heaven and earth , the sea , and all that is in it , you have founded them . The north and the south , you have created them ; Tabor and Hermon joyously praise your name . You have a mighty arm ; strong is your hand , high your right hand . Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne ; steadfast love and faithfulness go before you . Blessed are the people who know the festal shout , who walk , O LORD , in your strength the king rejoices , and in your salvation how greatly he exults ! You have given him his heart 's desire and have not withheld the request of his lips . Selah For you meet him with rich blessings ; you set a crown of fine gold upon his head . He asked life of you ; you gave it to him , length of days forever and ever . His glory is great through your salvation ; splendor and majesty you bestow on him . For you make him most blessed forever ; you make him glad with the joy of your presence . For the king trusts in the LORD , and through the steadfast love of the Most High he shall not be moved . Your hand will find out all your enemies ; your right hand will find out those who hate you . You will make them as a blazing oven when you appear . The LORD will swallow them up in his wrath , and terrify them in his fury , saying , "As for me , I have set my King on Zion , my holy hill . " I will tell of the decree : The LORD said to me , "You are my Son ; today I have begotten you . Ask of me , and I will offer in his tent sacrifices with shouts of joy ; I will sing and make melody ! Awake , my glory ! Awake , O harp and lyre ! I will awake the dawn ! I will give thanks to you , O Lord , are good and forgiving , abounding in steadfast love to all who call upon you . Give ear , O LORD , to those who are good , and to those who are upright in their hearts ! But those who turn aside to their crooked ways the LORD will lead away with evildoers ! Peace be upon Israel ! They Have Afflicted Me from My Youth END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Bless the LORD , O my soul ! O LORD My God , You Are Very Great : Bless the LORD , O my soul , and why are you in turmoil within me ? Hope in God ; for I shall again praise him , my salvation and my God . My soul is cast down within me ; therefore I remember you from the land of Jordan and of Hermon , from Mount Mizar . Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls ; all your breakers and your waves have gone over me . By day the LORD commands his steadfast love , and at night his song is with me , a prayer to the God of my life . I say to God , my rock : "Why have you forgotten me ? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy ? " As with a deadly wound in my bones , my adversaries taunt me , while they say to me all the day long , for they have been put to shame and disappointed who sought to do me hurt . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Ascribe to the LORD , O heavenly beings , ascribe to the LORD glory and strength . Ascribe to the LORD , O heavenly beings , ascribe to the LORD glory and strength . Ascribe to the LORD , O heavenly beings , ascribe to the LORD glory and strength ! Ascribe to the LORD the glory due his name ; worship the LORD in the splendor of holiness ; tremble before him , all the earth ! Serve the LORD with gladness ! Come into his presence with singing ! Know that the LORD , he is God ! It is he who made us , and we are his ; we are his people , and the sheep of his hand . Today , if you hear his voice , do not harden your hearts , as at Meribah , as on the day at Massah in the wilderness , when your fathers put me to the test and put me to the proof , though they had seen my work . For forty years I loathed that generation and said , "They are a people who go astray in their heart , and they have not known my ways . " Therefore I swore in my wrath , "They shall not enter my rest . " Worship in the Splendor of Holiness : Oh sing to the LORD a new song ; sing to the LORD , because he has dealt bountifully with me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Those who trust in the LORD are like Mount Zion , which cannot be moved , but abides forever . As the mountains surround Jerusalem , so the LORD surrounds his people , from this time forth and forevermore . Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , you have searched me and known me ! You know when I sit down and when I rise up ; you discern my thoughts from afar . You search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways . Even before a word is on my tongue , behold , O LORD , you will not restrain your mercy from me ; your steadfast love and your faithfulness , for you have exalted above all things your name and your word . On the day I called , you answered me ; teach me your statutes . My eyes shed streams of tears , because people do not keep your law . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM If it had not been the LORD who was on our side - let Israel now say - "Greatly have they afflicted me from my youth " - let Israel now say - "Greatly have they afflicted me from my youth , yet they have not prevailed against me . The plowers plowed upon my back ; they made long their furrows . " The LORD is righteous ; he loves righteous deeds ; the upright shall behold his face . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear my cry , O God , listen to my prayer ; from the end of the heavens , and its circuit to the end of them , and there is nothing hidden from its heat . The law of the LORD is perfect , reviving the soul ; the testimony of the LORD is sure , making wise the simple ; the precepts of the LORD are right , rejoicing the heart ; the commandment of the LORD is pure , enlightening the eyes ; the fear of the LORD is clean , enduring forever ; the rules of the LORD are true , and righteous altogether . More to be desired are they than gold , even much fine gold ; sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb . Moreover , by them is your servant warned ; in keeping them there is great reward . Who can discern his errors ? Declare me innocent from hidden faults . Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins ; let them not have dominion over me ! Then I shall be blameless , and innocent of great transgression . Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart shall be understanding . I will incline my ear to a proverb ; I will solve my riddle to the music of the lute and the harp , to the melody of the lyre . For you , O LORD , I call ; my rock , be not deaf to me , lest , if you be silent to me , I become like those who go down to the pit . Hear the voice of my pleas for mercy , when I cry to you for help , when I lift up my hands toward your commandments , which I love . I will lift up my hands toward your commandments , which I love , and I will meditate on your precepts . Let those who fear you turn to me , that they may know that God rules over Jacob to the ends of the earth and of the farthest seas ; the one who by his strength established the mountains , being girded with might ; who stills the roaring of the seas , the roaring of their waves , the tumult of the peoples , so that those who hated them ruled over them . Their enemies oppressed them , and they were brought into subjection under their power . Many times he delivered them , but they were rebellious in their purposes and were brought low through their iniquity . Nevertheless , he looked upon their distress , when he heard their cry . For their sake he remembered his covenant , and relented according to the abundance of his steadfast love . He caused them to be pitied by all those who held them captive . Save us , O LORD our God , you answered them ; you were a forgiving God to them , but an avenger of their wrongdoings . Exalt the LORD our God , and worship at his holy mountain ; for the LORD our God is holy ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The heavens declare the glory of God , and the sky above proclaims his handiwork . Day to day pours out speech , and night to night reveals knowledge . There is no speech , nor are there words , whose voice is not heard . Their voice goes out through all the earth , and their offspring from among the children of man . The dead do not praise the LORD , nor do any who go down into silence . But we will bless the LORD from this time forth and forevermore . Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Make a joyful noise to the LORD , all the earth ! Say among the nations , "The LORD reigns ! Yes , the world is established ; it shall never be moved ; he will be remembered forever . He is not afraid of bad news ; his heart is firm , trusting in the LORD . His heart is steady ; he will not be afraid , until he looks in triumph on his adversaries . He has distributed freely ; he has given to the children of man . Everyone utters lies to his neighbor ; with flattering lips and a double heart they speak . May the LORD cut off all flattering lips , the tongue that makes great boasts , those who say , "With our tongue we will prevail , our lips are with us ; who is master over us ? " "Because the poor are plundered , because the needy groan , I will now arise , " says the LORD ; "I will place him in the safety for which he longs . " The words of the LORD are pure words , like silver refined in a furnace on the ground , purified seven times . You , O LORD , will keep them ; you will guard us from this generation forever . On every side the wicked prowl , as vileness is exalted among the children of man . The LORD tests the righteous , but his soul hates the wicked and the one who loves violence . Let him rain coals on the wicked ; fire and sulfur and a scorching wind shall be the portion of their cup . For the LORD is righteous ; he has cut the cords of the wicked . May all who hate Zion be put to shame and dismayed forever ; let them perish in disgrace , that they may know that you alone , whose name is the LORD , are the Most High over all the earth . My Soul Longs for the Courts of the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Be merciful to me , O God , according to your righteousness , and let them not rejoice over me ! Let them not say in their hearts , "Aha , our heart 's desire ! " Let them not say , "We have swallowed him up . " Let them be put to shame and turned backward ! Let them be like the grass on the housetops , which withers before it grows up , with which the reaper does not fill his hand nor the binder of sheaves his arms , nor do those who pass by say , "The blessing of the LORD be upon you ! We bless you in the name of the LORD ! " Our feet have been standing within your gates , O Jerusalem ! Jerusalem -built as a city that is bound firmly together , to which the tribes go up , the tribes of the LORD , as was decreed for Israel , to give thanks to the LORD ; call upon his name ; make known his deeds among the peoples ! Sing to him , sing praises to him ; tell of all his wondrous works ! Glory in his holy name ; let the hearts of those who seek the LORD lack no good thing . Come , O children , listen to me ; I will teach you the fear of the LORD is clean , enduring forever ; the rules of the LORD are true , and righteous altogether . More to be desired are they than gold , even much fine gold ; sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb . Moreover , by them is your servant warned ; in keeping them there is great reward . Who can discern his errors ? Declare me innocent from hidden faults . Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins ; let them not have dominion over me ! Then I shall be blameless , and innocent of great transgression . Let the words of my mouth ! I will open my mouth in a parable ; I will utter dark sayings from of old , things that we have heard and known , that our fathers have told us . We will not hide them from their children , but tell to the coming generation the glorious deeds of the LORD , or declare all his praise ? Blessed are they who observe justice , who do righteousness at all times ! Remember me , O LORD , the floods have lifted up their voice ; the floods lift up their roaring . Mightier than the thunders of many waters , mightier than the waves of the sea were hushed . Then they were glad that the waters were quiet , and he brought them to their desired haven . Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love , for his wondrous works to the children of man ! And let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving , and tell of his deeds in songs of joy ! Some went down to the sea in ships , doing business on the great waters ; they saw the deeds of the LORD , his wondrous works in the deep . For he commanded and raised the stormy wind , which lifted up the waves of the sea . They mounted up to heaven ; they went down to the depths ; their courage melted away in their evil plight ; they reeled and staggered like drunken men and were at their wits ' end . Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble , and he delivered them from their distress . He sent out his word and healed them , and delivered them from their destruction . Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love , for his wondrous works to the children of man ! For he satisfies the longing soul , and the hungry soul he fills with good things . Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of your wings . They feast on the abundance of your house , and you give them their food in due season . You open your hand ; you satisfy the desire of every living thing . The LORD is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his works . ] The LORD upholds all who are falling and raises up all who are bowed down . The eyes of all look to you , to give them their food in due season . You open your hand ; you satisfy the desire of every living thing . The LORD is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his works . ] The LORD upholds all who are falling and raises up all who are bowed down . The eyes of all look to you , to give them their food in due season . When you give it to them , they gather it up ; when you open your hand , they are filled with good things . When you hide your face , they are dismayed ; when you take away their breath , they die and return to their dust . When you send forth your Spirit , they are created , and you renew the face of the ground . May the glory of the LORD . For though the LORD is high , he regards the lowly , but the haughty he knows from afar . Though I walk in the midst of trouble , you preserve my life ; you stretch out your hand against the wrath of my enemies , and your right hand delivers me . The LORD will fulfill his purpose for me ; your steadfast love , O LORD , and afflict your heritage . They kill the widow and the sojourner , and murder the fatherless ; and they say , "The LORD does not see ; the God of Jacob is our fortress . Selah Come , behold the works of the LORD or the work of his hands , he will tear them down and build them up no more . Blessed be the LORD , the God of Israel . Rain in abundance , O God , you provided for the needy . The Lord gives the word ; the women who announce the news are a great host : "The kings of the armies -they flee , they flee ! " The women at home divide the spoil - though you men lie among the sheepfolds - the wings of a dove covered with silver , its pinions with shimmering gold . When the Almighty scatters kings there , let snow fall on Zalmon . O mountain of God , mountain of Bashan ; O many -peaked mountain , at the mount that God desired for his abode , yes , where the LORD will dwell forever ? The chariots of God are twice ten thousand , thousands upon thousands ; the Lord is among them ; Sinai is now in the sanctuary . You ascended on high , leading a host of captives in your train and receiving gifts among men , even among the rebellious , that the LORD God may dwell there . Blessed be the Lord , who daily bears us up ; God is our salvation . Selah Our God is a God of salvation , and to GOD , the Lord , belong deliverances from death . But God will strike the heads of his enemies , the hairy crown of him who walks in his guilty ways . The Lord said , "I will bring them back from Bashan , I will bring them back from the depths of the earth ; the heights of the mountains are his also . The sea is his , for he made it , and his hands formed the dry land . Oh come , let us sing to the LORD ; let us make a joyful noise to him with songs of praise ! For the LORD is good ; his steadfast love endures forever ; he who gives food to all flesh , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who spread out the earth above the waters , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and killed mighty kings , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who divided the Red Sea in two , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and killed mighty kings , Sihon , king of the Amorites , and Og , king of Bashan , for his steadfast love endures forever . " Let those who fear the LORD say , "His steadfast love endures forever . Give thanks to the God of gods , for his steadfast love endures forever ! Let Israel say , "His steadfast love endures forever . " Out of my distress I called on the LORD ; the LORD answered me and set me free . The LORD is on my side ; I will not fear . What can man do to me ? I must perform my vows to you , that which my lips uttered and my mouth promised when I was in trouble . I will offer to you burnt offerings of fattened animals , with the smoke of the sacrifice of rams ; I will make an offering of bulls and goats . Selah Come and hear , all you who fear God , and I will tell what he has done for my soul . I cry to you , O LORD , be gracious to me , and raise me up , that I may be safe and have regard for your statutes continually ! You spurn all who go astray from your statutes , for their cunning is in vain . All the wicked of the earth shall drain it down to the dregs . But I will declare it forever ; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob . He made it a decree in Joseph when he went out over the land of Egypt . I hear a language I had not known : "I relieved your shoulder of the burden ; your hands were freed from the basket . In distress you called , and I delivered you ; I answered you in the secret place of thunder ; I tested you at the waters of Meribah . Selah Hear , O my people , to my teaching ; incline your ears to the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight , O LORD , my strength . The LORD is my chosen portion and my cup ; you hold my lot . The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places ; indeed , I have a beautiful inheritance . I bless the LORD who gives me counsel ; in the night also my heart instructs me . I have set the LORD always before me ; because he is at my right hand , until I make your enemies your footstool . " The LORD sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter . Rule in the midst of your enemies ! Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power , in holy garments ; from the womb of the morning , the dew of your youth will be yours . The LORD has sworn and will not change his mind , "You are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek . " The Lord is at your right hand ; he will shatter kings on the day of his wrath . He will execute judgment among the nations , filling them with corpses ; he will shatter chiefs over the wide earth . He will drink from the brook by the way ; therefore he will lift up his head . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Great is the LORD and greatly to be praised , and his greatness is unsearchable . One generation shall commend your works to another , and shall declare your mighty acts . On the glorious splendor of your kingdom . Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom , and your dominion endures throughout all generations . [The LORD is faithful in all his words and kind in all his works . The LORD is near to all who call on him in truth . He fulfills the desire of those who fear him ; he also hears their cry and saves them . The LORD preserves all who love him , but all the wicked he will destroy . My mouth will speak the praise of the LORD , and all the kings of the earth . My steadfast love I will keep for him forever , and my covenant will stand firm for him . I will establish his offspring forever and his throne as the days of the heavens . If his children forsake my law and do not walk according to my rules , if they violate my statutes and do not keep my commandments , then I will punish their transgression with the rod and their iniquity with stripes , but I will not remove from him my steadfast love or be false to my faithfulness . I will not violate my covenant or alter the word that went forth from my lips . Once for all I have sworn by my holiness ; I will not lie to David . His offspring shall endure forever , his throne as long as the sun before me . Like the moon it shall be established forever , a faithful witness in the skies . " Selah But now you have cast off and rejected ; you are full of wrath against your anointed . You have renounced the covenant with your servant ; you have defiled his crown in the dust . You have breached all his walls ; you have laid his strongholds in ruins . All who pass by plunder him ; he has become the scorn of his neighbors . You have exalted the right hand of his foes ; you have made all his enemies rejoice . You have also turned back the edge of his sword , and you have not delivered me into the hand of the nations , so that those who dwell at the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the LORD , and he answered me and delivered me from all my fears . Those who look to him are radiant , and their faces shall never be ashamed . This poor man cried , and the LORD heard him and saved him out of all his troubles . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Transgression speaks to the wicked deep in his heart ; there is no fear of God before his eyes . For he flatters himself in his own eyes that his iniquity cannot be found out and hated . The words of his mouth are trouble and deceit ; he has ceased to act wisely and do good . He plots trouble while on his bed ; he sets himself in a way that is not good ; he does not reject evil . Your steadfast love , O LORD , be gracious to me , and raise me up , that I may be safe and have regard for your statutes continually ! You spurn all who go astray from your statutes , for their cunning is in vain . All the wicked of the earth you discard like dross , therefore I love your testimonies . My flesh trembles for fear of you , and I am afraid of your judgments . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Zayin Remember your word to your servant , in which you have made me hope . This is my comfort in my affliction , that your promise gives me life . The insolent utterly deride me , but I do not turn away from your law . When I think of your rules from of old , I take comfort , O LORD . Hot indignation seizes me because of the wicked , who forsake your law . Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness . For the LORD God is a sun and shield ; the LORD bestows favor and honor . No good thing does he withhold from those who walk uprightly . O LORD of hosts , my King and my God , for to you do I pray . O LORD , in the morning you hear my voice ; in the morning I prepare a sacrifice for you and watch . For you are not a God who delights in wickedness ; evil may not dwell with you . The boastful shall not stand before your eyes ; you hate all evildoers . You destroy those who speak lies ; the LORD abhors the bloodthirsty and deceitful man . But I , through the abundance of your steadfast love , but rebelled by the sea , at the Red Sea . Yet he saved them for his name 's sake . Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death , and burst their bonds apart . Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love , for his wondrous works to the children of man . Everyone utters lies to his neighbor ; with flattering lips and a double heart they speak . May the LORD cut off all flattering lips , the tongue that makes great boasts , those who say , "With our tongue we will prevail , our lips are with us ; who is master over us ? " "Because the poor are plundered , because the needy groan , I will now arise , " says the LORD ; "I will place him in the safety for which he longs . " The words of the LORD are pure words , like silver refined in a furnace on the ground , purified seven times . You , O LORD , will keep them ; you will guard us from this generation forever . On every side the wicked prowl , as vileness is exalted among the children of man . Though they plan evil against you , though they devise mischief , they will not succeed . For you will put them to flight ; you will aim at their faces with your bows . Be exalted , O God , above the heavens ! Let them praise the name of the LORD our God . They collapse and fall , but we rise and stand upright . O LORD , save the king ! May he answer us when we call . The King Rejoices in the LORD 's Strength END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! Sing to the LORD , bless his name ; tell of his salvation from day to day . Declare his glory among the nations , his marvelous works among all the peoples ! For great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him ; he remembers his covenant forever . He has shown his people the power of his works , in giving them the inheritance of the nations . The works of his hands are faithful and just ; all his precepts are trustworthy ; they are established forever and ever , to be performed with faithfulness and uprightness . He sent redemption to his people ; he has commanded his covenant forever . Holy and awesome is his name ! The fear of the LORD is clean , enduring forever ; the rules of the LORD are true , and righteous altogether . More to be desired are they than gold , even much fine gold ; sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb . Moreover , by them is your servant warned ; in keeping them there is great reward . Who can discern his errors ? Declare me innocent from hidden faults . Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins ; let them not have dominion over me ! Then I shall be blameless , and innocent of great transgression . Let the words of my mouth ! I will open my mouth in a parable ; I will utter dark sayings from of old , things that we have heard and known , that our fathers have told us . We will not hide them from their children , but tell to the coming generation the glorious deeds of the LORD , his wondrous works in the deep . For he commanded and raised the stormy wind , which lifted up the waves of the sea were hushed . Then they were glad that the waters were quiet , and he brought them to their desired haven . Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love , for his wondrous works to the children of man ! Let them extol him in the congregation of the people , and praise him in the assembly of the godly ! Let Israel be glad in his Maker ; let the children of Zion rejoice in their King ! Let them praise his name with dancing , making melody to him with tambourine and lyre ! For the LORD takes pleasure in those who fear him , that glory may dwell in our land . Steadfast love and faithfulness meet ; righteousness and peace kiss each other . Faithfulness springs up from the ground , and righteousness looks down from the sky . Yes , the LORD will give what is good , and our land will yield its increase . Righteousness will go before him and make his footsteps a way . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give thanks to the LORD with the lyre , with the lyre and the sound of melody ! With trumpets and the sound of the horn make a joyful noise before the King , the LORD ! Let the sea roar , and all that fills it ; the world and those who dwell therein , for he has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the rivers . Who shall ascend the hill of the LORD ? And who is a rock , except our God ? - the God who equipped me with strength and made my way blameless . He made my feet like the feet of a deer and set me secure on the heights . He trains my hands for war , and my fingers for battle ; he is my steadfast love and my fortress , my stronghold and my deliverer , my God , my rock , in whom I take refuge , who subdues peoples under me . O LORD , you have brought up my soul from Sheol ; you restored me to life from among those who go down to the pit . Sing praises to the LORD with the lyre ; make melody to him with the harp of ten strings ! Sing to him a new song ; play skillfully on the strings , with loud shouts . For the word of the LORD proves true ; he is a shield for all those who take refuge in him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will extol you , O LORD , among the nations , and sing to your name . Great salvation he brings to his king , and shows steadfast love to his anointed , to David and his offspring forever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM As a deer pants for flowing streams , so pants my soul for you , O God , have heard my vows ; you have given me the heritage of those who fear your name . Prolong the life of the king ; may his years endure to all generations ! May he be like rain that falls on the mown grass , like showers that water the earth ! In his days may the righteous flourish , and peace abound , till the moon be no more ! May he have dominion from sea to sea , and from the River to the ends of the earth . Your right hand is filled with righteousness . Let Mount Zion be glad ! Let the daughters of Judah rejoice , because of your judgments , O LORD . For you , O LORD , have mercy upon us , for we have had more than enough of the scorn of those who are at ease , of the contempt of the proud . Our Help Is in the Name of the LORD Our God END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Bless the LORD , O my soul ! O LORD My God , You Are Very Great : Bless the LORD , O my soul , and why are you in turmoil within me ? Hope in God ; for I shall again praise him , my salvation and my God . My soul is cast down within me ; therefore I remember you from the land of Jordan and of Hermon , from Mount Mizar . Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls ; all your breakers and your waves have gone over me . By day the LORD commands his steadfast love , and at night his song is with me , a prayer to the God of my life . I say to God , my rock : "Why have you forgotten me ? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy ? " As with a deadly wound in my bones , my adversaries taunt me , while they say to me all the day long , for they have been put to shame and disappointed who sought to do me hurt . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Incline your ear , O LORD , and come down ! Touch the mountains so that they smoke ! Flash forth the lightning and scatter them ; send out your arrows and rout them ! Stretch out your hand from on high ; rescue me and deliver me from the many waters , from the hand of the foe . He gave his people over to the sword and vented his wrath on his heritage . Fire devoured their young men , and their young women had no marriage song . Their priests fell by the sword , and their widows made no lamentation . Then the Lord awoke as from sleep , like a strong man shouting because of wine . And he put his adversaries to rout ; he put them to everlasting shame . He rejected the tent of Joseph ; he did not choose the tribe of Ephraim , but he chose the tribe of Judah , Mount Zion , which he loves . He built his sanctuary like the high heavens , like the earth , which he has founded forever . He chose David his servant and took him from the sheepfolds ; from following the nursing ewes he brought him to shepherd Jacob his people , Israel his inheritance . With upright heart he shepherded them and guided them with his skillful hand . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed are those whose way is blameless , who walk in the law of the LORD , and have not wickedly departed from my God . For all his rules were before me , and his statutes I did not put away from me . I was blameless before him , and I kept myself from my guilt . So the LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness , according to the cleanness of my hands he rewarded me . For I have kept the ways of the LORD , and let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD reigns ; he is robed in majesty ; the LORD is robed ; he has put on strength as his belt . Yes , the world is established ; it shall never be moved . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Ascribe to the LORD , O heavenly beings , ascribe to the LORD glory and strength . Ascribe to the LORD , O heavenly beings , ascribe to the LORD glory and strength . Ascribe to the LORD , O heavenly beings , ascribe to the LORD glory and strength ! Ascribe to the LORD the glory due his name ; worship the LORD in the splendor of holiness ; tremble before him , all the earth ! Serve the LORD with gladness ! Come into his presence with singing ! Know that the LORD , he is God ! It is he who made us , and we are his ; we are his people , and the sheep of his hand . Today , if you hear his voice , do not harden your hearts , as at Meribah , as on the day at Massah in the wilderness , when your fathers put me to the test and put me to the proof , though they had seen my work . For forty years I loathed that generation and said , "They are a people who go astray in their heart , and they have not known my ways . " Therefore I swore in my wrath , "They shall not enter my rest . " Worship in the Splendor of Holiness : Oh sing to the LORD a new song ; sing to the LORD , because he has dealt bountifully with me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear my prayer , O LORD , and go to your resting place , you and the ark of your might . Let your priests be clothed with righteousness , and let your saints shout for joy . For the sake of your servant David , do not turn away the face of your anointed ! For a day in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere . I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my sojourning . I remember your name in the night , O LORD , and be merciful to me ! O LORD , make haste to help me ! May my accusers be put to shame and dishonor who seek after my life ! Let them be turned back and brought to dishonor who delight in my hurt ! Let them turn back because of their shame who say to me , "Aha , Aha ! " But may all who seek you rejoice and be glad in your steadfast love , because you have seen my affliction ; you have known the distress of my soul , and you have not made him stand in battle . You have made his splendor to cease and cast his throne to the ground . You have cut short the days of his youth ; you have covered him with shame . Selah How long , O LORD ? Will you forget me forever ? How long will your wrath burn like fire ? Remember how short my time is ! For what vanity you have created all the children of man ; from where he sits enthroned he looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth , he who fashions the hearts of them all and observes all their deeds . The king is not saved by his great army ; a warrior is not delivered by his great strength . The war horse is a false hope for salvation , and by its great might it cannot rescue . Behold , the eye of the LORD is on those who fear him , in those who hope in his steadfast love . Praise the LORD , O Jerusalem ! Praise your God , O Zion ! For he strengthens the bars of your gates ; he blesses your children within you . He makes peace in your borders ; he fills you with the finest of the wheat . He sends out his command to the earth ; his word runs swiftly . He gives snow like wool ; he scatters hoarfrost like ashes . He hurls down his crystals of ice like crumbs ; who can stand before his cold ? He sends out his word , and melts them ; he makes his wind blow and the waters flow . He declares his word to Jacob , his statutes and rules to Israel . He has not dealt thus with any other nation ; they do not know his rules . Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Why , O LORD , do I take refuge ; save me from all my pursuers and deliver me , lest like a lion they tear my soul apart , rending it in pieces , with none to deliver . O LORD my God , your wondrous deeds and your thoughts toward us ; none can compare with you ! I will proclaim and tell of them , yet they are more than can be told . In sacrifice and offering you have not delighted , but you have given me an open ear . Burnt offering and sin offering you have not required . Then I said , "Behold , I have come ; in the scroll of the book it is written of me : I delight to do your will , for you are my God ! Let your good Spirit lead me on level ground ! For your name 's sake , O LORD , pardon my guilt , for it is great . Who is the man who fears the LORD , who greatly delights in his commandments ! His offspring will be mighty in the land ; the generation of the upright will be blessed . Wealth and riches are in his house , and his righteousness endures forever . He has caused his wondrous works to be remembered ; the LORD is gracious and merciful . He provides food for those who fear him , and his righteousness to children 's children , to those who keep his covenant and his testimonies . For your name 's sake , O LORD , pardon my guilt , for it is great . Who is the man who fears the LORD , who walks in his ways ! You have commanded your precepts to be kept diligently . Oh that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes ! Then I shall not be put to shame , for I find my delight in your commandments , which I love , and I will meditate on your wondrous works . My soul melts away for sorrow ; strengthen me according to your word . My lips will pour forth praise , for you teach me your statutes . My tongue will sing of your word , for all your commandments are right . Let your hand be ready to help me , for I have chosen your precepts . I long for your salvation , O LORD , and keep your law . This blessing has fallen to me , that I have kept your precepts . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In you , O LORD , I lift up my soul . Deliver me from my enemies , O LORD ! I have fled to you for refuge ! Teach me to do your will , for you are my God ! Let your good Spirit lead me on level ground ! For your name 's sake , O LORD , pardon my guilt , for it is great . Who is the man who fears the LORD ? Him will he instruct in the way that he should choose . His soul shall abide in well -being , and his offspring shall inherit the land . The friendship of the LORD is for those who fear him ; as far as the east is from the west , so far does he remove our transgressions from us . As a father shows compassion to his children , so the LORD shows compassion to those who fear him . For he knows our frame ; he remembers that we are dust . As for man , his days are like grass ; he flourishes like a flower of the field ; for the wind passes over it , and it is gone , and its place knows it no more . But the steadfast love of the LORD . By the word of the LORD the heavens were made , and by the breath of his mouth all their host . He gathers the waters of the sea as a heap ; he puts the deeps in storehouses . Let all the earth fear the LORD ; let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him ! For he spoke , and it came to be ; he commanded , and it stood firm . The LORD brings the counsel of the nations to nothing ; he frustrates the plans of the peoples . The counsel of the LORD stands forever , the plans of his heart to all generations . Blessed is the nation whose God is the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh sing to the LORD a new song ; sing to the LORD , because he has heard my voice and my pleas for mercy . Because he inclined his ear to me , therefore I will call on him as long as I live . The snares of death encompassed me ; the pangs of Sheol laid hold on me ; I suffered distress and anguish . Then I called on the name of the LORD , and in Jerusalem his praise , when peoples gather together , and kingdoms , to worship the LORD . He has broken my strength in midcourse ; he has shortened my days . "O my God , " I say , "take me not away in the midst of my days - you whose years endure throughout all generations ! " Of old you laid the foundation of the earth , and the heavens are the work of your hands . They will perish , but you will remain ; they will all wear out like a garment . You will change them like a robe , and they will pass away , but you are the same , and your years have no end . The children of your servants shall dwell secure ; their offspring shall be established before you . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Be gracious to me , O Lord , for what do I wait ? My hope is in you . Deliver me from bloodguiltiness , O God , O God of my praise ! For wicked and deceitful mouths are opened against me , speaking against me with lying tongues . They encircle me with words of hate , and attack me without cause . In return for my love they accuse me , but I give myself to prayer . So they reward me evil for good , and hatred for my love . Appoint a wicked man against him ; let an accuser stand at his right hand . When he is tried , let him come forth guilty ; let his prayer be counted as sin ! May his days be few ; may another take his office ! May his children be fatherless and his wife a widow ! May his children wander about and beg , seeking food far from the ruins they inhabit ! May the creditor seize all that he has ; may strangers plunder the fruits of his toil ! Let there be none to extend kindness to him , nor any to pity his fatherless children ! May his posterity be cut off ; may his name be blotted out in the second generation ! May the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before the LORD , and let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The fool says in his heart , "I shall not be moved ; God will help her when morning dawns . The nations rage , the kingdoms totter ; he utters his voice , the earth melts . The LORD of hosts is with us ; the God of Jacob is our fortress . Selah END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I waited patiently for the LORD ; he inclined to me and heard my cry . He drew me up from the pit of destruction , out of the miry bog , and set my feet upon a rock , making my steps secure . He put a new song in my mouth , a song of praise to our God . Many will see and fear , and put their trust in the LORD . There are many who say , "Who will show us some good ? Lift up the light of your face upon us , O LORD , have made me glad by your work ; at the works of your hands I sing for joy . How great are your works , O LORD ! Your thoughts are very deep ! The stupid man cannot know ; the fool cannot understand this : that though the wicked sprout like grass and all evildoers flourish , they are doomed to destruction forever ; but you , O LORD , laugh at them ; you hold all the nations in derision . O my Strength , I will watch for you , for you , O God , are my fortress . My God in his steadfast love will meet me ; God will let me look in triumph on my enemies . Kill them not , lest my people forget ; make them totter by your power and bring them down , O Lord , our shield ! For the sin of their mouths , the words of their lips , let them be trapped in their pride . For the cursing and lies that they utter , consume them in wrath ; consume them till they are no more , that they may know that God rules over Jacob to the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the LORD , and he answered me . Deliver me , O LORD , and I do your commandments . My soul keeps your testimonies ; I love them exceedingly . I keep your precepts and testimonies , for all my ways are before you . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM God is our refuge and strength , a very present help in trouble . Therefore we will not fear though the earth gives way , though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea , though its waters roar and foam , though the mountains tremble at its swelling . Selah There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God , the holy habitation of the Most High . So he bowed their hearts down with hard labor ; they fell down , with none to help . Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble , and he delivered them from their distress . He made the storm be still , and the waves of the sea . They mounted up to heaven ; they went down to the depths ; their courage melted away in their evil plight ; they reeled and staggered like drunken men and were at their wits ' end . Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble , and he delivered them from their distress . He sent out his word and healed them , and delivered them from their destruction . Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love , for his wondrous works to the children of man ! Let them extol him in the congregation of the people , and praise him in the assembly of the elders . He turns rivers into a desert , springs of water into thirsty ground , a fruitful land into a salty waste , because of the evil of its inhabitants . He turns a desert into pools of water , a parched land into springs of water . And there he lets the hungry dwell , and they establish a city to live in ; they sow fields and plant vineyards and get a fruitful yield . By his blessing they multiply greatly , and he does not let their livestock diminish . When they are diminished and brought low through oppression , evil , and sorrow , he pours contempt on princes and makes them wander in trackless wastes ; but he raises up the needy out of affliction and makes their families like flocks . The upright see it and are glad , and all wickedness shuts its mouth . Whoever is wise , let him attend to these things ; let them consider the steadfast love of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him , and his righteousness to children 's children , to those who keep his covenant and his testimonies . For your name 's sake , O LORD , preserve my life ! In your righteousness bring my soul out of trouble ! And in your steadfast love you will cut off my enemies , and you will destroy all the adversaries of my soul , for I am your servant . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , rebuke me not in your anger , nor discipline me in your wrath ! For your arrows have sunk into me , and your hand has come down on me . There is no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation ; there is no health in my bones because of my sin . For my iniquities have gone over my head ; like a heavy burden , they are too heavy for me . My wounds stink and fester because of my foolishness , I am utterly bowed down and prostrate ; all the day I go about mourning . For my sides are filled with burning , and there is no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation ; there is no health in my bones because of my sin . For my iniquities have gone over my head ; like a heavy burden , they are too heavy for me . My wounds stink and fester because of my foolishness , I am utterly bowed down and prostrate ; all the day I go about mourning . For my sides are filled with burning , and there is no soundness in my flesh . I am like a desert owl of the wilderness , like an owl of the waste places ; I lie awake ; I am like a lonely sparrow on the housetop . All the day my enemies taunt me ; those who deride me use my name for a curse . For I eat ashes like bread and mingle tears with my drink , because of your indignation and anger ; for you have taken me up and thrown me down . My days are like an evening shadow ; I wither away like grass . But you , O LORD , be gracious to me ; heal me , for I have sought your precepts . The wicked lie in wait to destroy me , but I consider your testimonies . I have seen a wicked , ruthless man , spreading himself like a green laurel tree . But he passed away , and behold , he was no more ; though I sought him , he could not be found . Mark the blameless and behold the upright , for there is a future for the man of peace . But transgressors shall be altogether destroyed ; the future of the wicked shall be cut off . The salvation of the righteous is from the LORD ; he is their stronghold in the time of trouble . The LORD helps them and delivers them ; he delivers them from the hand of the wicked drive me away . There the evildoers lie fallen ; they are thrust down , unable to rise . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! Praise , O servants of the LORD , who stand in the house of the LORD our God , who is seated on high , who looks far down on the heavens and the earth ? He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap , to make them sit with princes , with the princes of his people . He gives the barren woman a home , making her the joyous mother of children . Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In Judah God is known ; his name is great in Israel . His abode has been established in Salem , his dwelling place in Zion . There he broke the flashing arrows , the shield , the sword , and the weapons of war . Selah Glorious are you , more majestic than the mountains of prey . The stouthearted were stripped of their spoil ; they sank into sleep ; all the men of war were unable to use their hands . At your rebuke , O God of Jacob , both rider and horse lay stunned . But you , you are to be feared ! Who can stand before you when once your anger is roused ? From the heavens you uttered judgment ; the earth feared and was still , when God arose to establish judgment , to save all the humble of the earth . Selah Surely the wrath of man shall praise you ; the remnant of wrath you will put on like a belt . Make your vows to the LORD your God and perform them ; let all around him bring gifts to him who is to be feared , who cuts off the spirit of princes , who is to be feared , a great king over all the earth . My Soul Longs for the Courts of the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Vindicate me , O LORD , from my youth . Upon you I have leaned from before my birth ; you are he who took me from the womb ; you made me trust you at my mother 's breasts . On you was I cast from my birth , and from my mother 's womb . I praise you , for I am fearfully and wonderfully made . Wonderful are your works ; my soul knows it very well . My frame was not hidden from you , when I was being made in secret , intricately woven in the depths of the pit , in the regions dark and deep . Your wrath lies heavy upon me , and you overwhelm me with all your waves . Selah You have caused my companions to shun me ; you have made me a horror to them . I am shut in so that I cannot escape ; my eye grows dim through sorrow . Every day I call upon you , for you will answer me , O God ; incline your ear to my cry ! For my soul is full of troubles , and my life draws near to Sheol . I am counted among those who go down to the pit ; I am a man who has no strength , like one set loose among the dead , like the slain that lie in the grave , like those whom you remember no more , for they are cut off from your hand . You have put me in the depths of the pit , in the regions dark and deep . Your wrath lies heavy upon me , and you overwhelm me with all your waves . Selah You have caused my companions to shun me ; you have made me a horror to them . I am the talk of those who sit in the gate , and the drunkards make songs about me . But as for me , I shall behold your face in righteousness ; when I awake , I shall be satisfied with your likeness . The LORD Is My Rock and My Fortress END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! Praise , O servants of the LORD , who stand in the house of the LORD our God , who is seated on high , who looks far down on the heavens and the earth ? He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap , to make them sit with princes , with the princes of his people . He gives the barren woman a home , making her the joyous mother of children . Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In the LORD I take refuge ; how can you say to my soul , "Flee like a bird to your mountain , for behold , the wicked bend the bow ; they have fitted their arrow to the string to shoot in the dark at the upright in heart ; if the foundations are destroyed , what can the righteous do ? " The LORD is in his holy temple ; the LORD 's throne is in heaven ; his eyes see , his eyelids test the children of man . The LORD tests the righteous , but his soul hates the wicked and the one who loves violence . Let him rain coals on the wicked ; fire and sulfur and a scorching wind shall be the portion of their cup . For the LORD is righteous ; he loves righteous deeds ; the upright shall behold his face . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM As a deer pants for flowing streams , so pants my soul for you , O God , have heard my vows ; you have given me the heritage of those who fear your name . Prolong the life of the king ; may his years endure to all generations ! May he be like rain that falls on the mown grass , like showers that water the earth ! In his days may the righteous flourish , and peace abound , till the moon be no more ! May he have dominion from sea to sea , and from the River to the ends of the earth . Your right hand is filled with righteousness . Let Mount Zion be glad ! Let the daughters of Judah rejoice , because of your judgments , O LORD . For you , O LORD , have mercy upon us , for we have had more than enough of the scorn of those who are at ease , of the contempt of the proud . Our Help Is in the Name of the LORD Our God END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM God shall arise , his enemies shall be scattered ; and those who hate him shall flee before him ! As smoke is driven away , so you shall drive them away ; as wax melts before fire , so the wicked shall perish before God ! But the righteous shall be glad ; they shall exult before God ; they shall be jubilant with joy ! Sing to God , sing praises to his name ; lift up a song to him who rides through the deserts ; his name is the LORD ; exult before him ! Father of the fatherless and protector of widows is God in his holy habitation . God settles the solitary in a home ; he leads out the prisoners to prosperity , but the rebellious dwell in a parched land . O God , when you went out before your people , when you marched through the wilderness , Selah the earth quaked , the heavens poured down rain , before God , the God of Israel , who alone does wondrous things . Blessed be his glorious name forever ; may the whole earth be filled with his glory ! Amen and Amen ! The prayers of David , the son of Jesse , are ended . God Is My Strength and Portion Forever END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In the LORD I take refuge ; how can you say to my soul , "Flee like a bird to your mountain , for behold , the wicked bend the bow ; they have fitted their arrow to the string to shoot in the dark at the upright in heart ; if the foundations are destroyed , what can the righteous do ? " The LORD is in his holy temple ; the LORD 's throne is in heaven ; his eyes see , his eyelids test the children of man . The LORD tests the righteous , but his soul hates the wicked and the one who loves violence . Let him rain coals on the wicked ; fire and sulfur and a scorching wind shall be the portion of their cup . For the LORD is righteous ; he loves righteous deeds ; the upright shall behold his face . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Come , bless the LORD , all you his saints ! The LORD preserves the faithful but abundantly repays the one who acts in pride . Be strong , and let your heart take courage , all you who wait for the LORD shall inherit the land . The friendship of the LORD is for those who fear him , on those who hope in his steadfast love , that he may deliver their soul from death and keep them alive in famine . Our soul waits for the LORD ; he inclined to me and heard my cry . He drew me up from the pit of destruction , out of the miry bog , and set my feet upon a rock , making my steps secure . He put a new song in my mouth , a song of praise to our God . Many will see and fear , and shall laugh at him , saying , "See the man who would not make God his refuge , but trusted in the abundance of his riches and sought refuge in his own destruction ! " But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God . I trust in the steadfast love of God forever and ever . He will guide us forever . Why Should I Fear in Times of Trouble ? END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed is everyone who fears the LORD , who walks in his ways ! You have commanded your precepts to be kept diligently . Oh that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes ! Then I shall not be put to shame when he speaks with his enemies in the gate . Blessed Is Everyone Who Fears the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will sing of steadfast love and justice ; to you , O LORD ! O LORD , we pray , give us success ! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the LORD , give praise , O servants of the LORD , praise the name of the LORD ! " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Beth How can a young man keep his way pure ? By guarding it according to your word . My lips will pour forth praise , for you teach me your statutes . I am your servant ; give me understanding , that I may keep your law and observe it with my whole heart . Lead me in the path of your commandments , for I delight in it . Incline my heart to your testimonies , and not to selfish gain ! Turn my eyes from looking at worthless things ; and give me life in your ways . Confirm to your servant your promise , that you may be feared . I wait for the LORD , my soul waits , and in his word I hope ; my soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning , more than watchmen for the morning . O Israel , hope in the LORD ! For with the LORD there is steadfast love , and with him is plentiful redemption . And he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , who shall sojourn in your tent ? Who shall dwell on your holy hill ? He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart ; who does not slander with his tongue and does no evil to his neighbor , nor takes up a reproach against his friend ; in whose eyes a vile person is despised , but who honors those who fear the LORD ; who swears to his own hurt and does not change ; who does not put out his money at interest and does not take a bribe against the innocent . He who does these things shall never be moved . Your throne is established from of old ; you are from everlasting . The floods have lifted up , O LORD , the desires of the wicked ; do not further their evil plot , or they will be exalted ! Selah As for the head of those who surround me , let the mischief of their lips overwhelm them ! Let burning coals fall upon them ! Let them be cast into fire , into miry pits , no more to rise ! Let not the slanderer be established in the land ; let evil hunt down the violent man speedily ! I know that the LORD saves his anointed ; he will answer him from his holy heaven with the saving might of his right hand . Some trust in chariots and some in horses , but we trust in the name of the LORD ! Blessed are those who keep his testimonies , who seek him with their whole heart , who also do no wrong , but walk in his ways ! You have commanded your precepts to be kept diligently . Oh that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes ! Then I shall not be put to shame , because they have wronged me with falsehood ; as for me , I shall walk in my integrity ; redeem me , and be gracious to me . My foot stands on level ground ; in the great assembly I will bless the LORD at all times ; his praise shall continually be in my mouth . My soul makes its boast in the LORD ; let the humble hear and be glad . Oh , magnify the LORD with me , and let us exalt his name together ! I sought the LORD , and he answered me . Deliver me , O LORD , the floods have lifted up their voice ; the floods lift up their roaring . Mightier than the thunders of many waters , mightier than the waves of the sea were hushed . Then they were glad that the waters were quiet , and he brought them to their desired haven . Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love , for his wondrous works to the children of man ! What man can live and never see death ? Who can deliver his soul from the power of Sheol , for he will receive me . Selah Be not afraid when a man becomes rich , when the glory of his house increases . For when he dies he will carry nothing away ; his glory will not go down after him . For though , while he lives , he counts himself blessed -and though you get praise when you do well for yourself - his soul will go to the generation of his fathers , who will never again see light . Man in his pomp will not remain ; he is like the beasts that perish . This is the path of those who have foolish confidence ; yet after them people approve of their boasts . Selah Like sheep they are appointed for Sheol ; death shall be their shepherd , and the upright shall rule over them in the morning . Their form shall be consumed in Sheol , with no place to dwell . But God will ransom my soul from the power of Sheol ? Selah Lord , where is your steadfast love of old , which by your faithfulness you swore to David ? Remember , O Lord , how your servants are mocked , and how I bear in my heart the insults of all the many nations , with which your enemies mock , O LORD , with your faithfulness all around you ? You rule the raging of the sea ; when its waves rise , you still them . You crushed Rahab like a carcass ; you scattered your enemies with your mighty arm . The heavens are yours ; the earth also is yours ; the world and all that is in it , you have founded them . The north and the south , you have created them ; Tabor and Hermon joyously praise your name . You have a mighty arm ; strong is your hand , high your right hand . Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne ; steadfast love and faithfulness go before you . Blessed are the people who know the festal shout , who walk , O LORD , in your strength ! We will sing and praise your power . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM My God , my God , why have you forsaken me ? Why are you so far from saving me , from the words of my groaning ? O my God , I cry by day , but you do not answer , and by night , but I find no rest . Yet you are holy , enthroned on the praises of Israel . In you our fathers trusted ; they trusted , and you delivered them . To you they cried and were rescued ; in you they trusted and were not put to shame . But I am a worm and not a man , scorned by mankind and despised by the people . All who see me mock me ; they make mouths at me ; they wag their heads ; "He trusts in the LORD ; let the humble hear and be glad . Oh , magnify the LORD with me , and let us exalt his name together ! I sought the LORD , and he answered them . In the pillar of the cloud he spoke to them ; they kept his testimonies and the statute that he gave them . O LORD our God , and gather us from among the nations , that we may give thanks to your holy name and glory in your praise . Blessed be the LORD , who has not given us as prey to their teeth ! We have escaped like a bird from the snare of the fowler and from the deadly pestilence . He will cover you with his pinions , and under his wings you will find refuge ; his faithfulness is a shield and buckler . You will not fear the terror of the night , nor the arrow that flies by day , nor the pestilence that stalks in darkness , nor the destruction that wastes at noonday . A thousand may fall at your side , ten thousand at your right hand , but it will not come near you . You will only look with your eyes and see the recompense of the wicked . Because you have made the LORD your dwelling place - the Most High , who is my refuge - no evil shall be allowed to befall you , no plague come near your tent . For he will command his angels concerning you to guard you in all your ways . On their hands they will bear you up , lest you strike your foot against a stone . You will tread on the lion and the adder ; the young lion and the serpent you will trample underfoot . "Because he holds fast to me in love , I will deliver him ; I will protect him , because he knows my name . When he calls to me , I will answer him ; I will be with him in trouble ; I will rescue him and honor him . With long life I will satisfy him and show him my salvation . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Samekh I hate the double -minded , but I love your law . Seven times a day I praise you for your righteous rules . Great peace have those who love your law ; nothing can make them stumble . I hope for your salvation , O LORD , and whom you teach out of your law , to give him rest from days of trouble , until a pit is dug for the wicked . For the LORD will not forsake his people ; he will not abandon his heritage ; for justice will return to the righteous , and all the upright in heart will follow it . Who rises up for me against the wicked ? Who stands up for me against evildoers ? If the LORD had not been my help , my soul would soon have lived in the land of silence . When I thought , "My foot slips , " your steadfast love , O Savior of those who seek refuge from their adversaries at your right hand . Keep me as the apple of your eye ; hide me in the shadow of your wings . They feast on the abundance of your house , and you give them drink from the river of your delights . For with you is the fountain of life ; in your light do we see light . Oh , continue your steadfast love to those who know you , and your righteousness to the upright of heart ! Let not the foot of arrogance come upon me , nor the hand of the wicked . " They have neither knowledge nor understanding , they walk about in darkness ; all the foundations of the earth are shaken . I said , "You are gods , sons of the Most High , all of you ; nevertheless , like men you shall die , and fall like any prince . " Arise , O LORD , in the light of your presence . For all our days pass away under your wrath ; we bring our years to an end like a sigh . The years of our life are seventy , or even by reason of strength eighty ; yet their span is but toil and trouble ; they are soon gone , and we fly away . Who considers the power of your anger , and your wrath according to the fear of you ? So teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom . Return , O LORD ! How long ? Have pity on your servants ! Satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love , that we may rejoice and be glad all our days . Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us , and for as many years as we have seen evil . Let your work be shown to your servants , and your glorious power to their children . Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us , and establish the work of our hands upon us ; yes , establish the work of our hands ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Deliver me from my enemies , O my God ; your law is within my heart . " I have told the glad news of deliverance in the great congregation ; in the mighty throng I will praise you . Let not those who hope in you be put to shame through me , O Lord GOD of hosts ; let not those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me , O God of Israel . For it is for your sake that I have borne reproach , that dishonor has covered my face . I have become a stranger to my brothers , an alien to my mother 's sons . For zeal for your house has consumed me , and the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me . When I wept and humbled my soul with fasting , it became my reproach . When I made sackcloth my clothing , I became a byword to them . I am the talk of those who sit in the gate , and the drunkards make songs about me . But as for me , my prayer is to you , O LORD , my rock and my redeemer . Trust in the Name of the LORD Our God END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! Praise the name of the LORD , and in Jerusalem his praise , when peoples gather together , and kingdoms , to worship the LORD . He has broken my strength in midcourse ; he has shortened my days . "O my God , " I say , "take me not away in the midst of my days - you whose years endure throughout all generations ! " Of old you laid the foundation of the earth , and the heavens are the work of your hands . They will perish , but you will remain ; they will all wear out like a garment . You will change them like a robe , and they will pass away , but you are the same , and your years have no end . The children of your servants shall dwell secure ; their offspring shall be established before you . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! I will give thanks to the LORD , for he has wondrously shown his steadfast love to me when I was in a besieged city . I had said in my alarm , "All mankind are liars . " What shall I render to the LORD for all his benefits to me ? I will walk with integrity of heart within my house ; I will not set before my eyes anything that is worthless . I hate the work of those who fall away ; it shall not cling to me . A perverse heart shall be far from me ; I will know nothing of evil . Whoever slanders his neighbor secretly I will destroy . Whoever has a haughty look and an arrogant heart I will not endure . I will look with favor on the faithful in the land , that they may dwell with me ; he who walks in the way that is blameless shall minister to me . No one who practices deceit shall dwell in my house ; no one who utters lies shall continue before my eyes . Morning by morning I will destroy all the wicked in the land , cutting off all the evildoers from the city of the LORD . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Why , O LORD , do I take refuge ; save me from all my pursuers and deliver me , lest like a lion they tear my soul apart , rending it in pieces , with none to deliver . O LORD my God , your wondrous deeds and your thoughts toward us ; none can compare with you ! I will proclaim and tell of them , yet they are more than can be told . In sacrifice and offering you have not delighted , but you have given me an open ear . Burnt offering and sin offering you have not required . Then I said , "Behold , I have come ; in the scroll of the book it is written of me : I delight to do your will , for you are my God ! Let your good Spirit lead me on level ground ! For your name 's sake , O LORD , pardon my guilt , for it is great . Who is the man who fears the LORD , who greatly delights in his commandments ! His offspring will be mighty in the land ; the generation of the upright will be blessed . Wealth and riches are in his house , and his righteousness endures forever . He has caused his wondrous works to be remembered ; the LORD is gracious and merciful . He provides food for those who fear him , and his righteousness to children 's children , to those who keep his covenant and his testimonies . For your name 's sake , O LORD , pardon my guilt , for it is great . Who is the man who fears the LORD , who walks in his ways ! You have commanded your precepts to be kept diligently . Oh that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes ! Then I shall not be put to shame , for I find my delight in your commandments , which I love , and I will meditate on your wondrous works . My soul melts away for sorrow ; strengthen me according to your word . My lips will pour forth praise , for you teach me your statutes . My tongue will sing of your word , for all your commandments are right . Let your hand be ready to help me , for I have chosen your precepts . I long for your salvation , O LORD , and keep your law . This blessing has fallen to me , that I have kept your precepts . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The earth is the LORD 's and the fullness thereof , the world and those who dwell therein , for he has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the rivers . Who shall ascend the hill of the LORD ? And who shall stand in his holy place ? He who has clean hands and a pure heart , who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully . He will receive blessing from the LORD and righteousness from the God of his salvation . Such is the generation of those who seek him , who seek the face of the God of Jacob . He made it a decree in Joseph when he went out over the land of Egypt . Open your mouth wide , and I will fill it . "But my people did not listen to my voice ; Israel would not submit to me . So I gave them over to their stubborn hearts , to follow their own counsels . Oh , that my people would listen to me , that Israel would walk in my ways ! I would soon subdue their enemies and turn my hand against their foes . Those who hate the LORD would cringe toward him , and their fate would last forever . But he would feed you with the finest of the wheat , and with honey from the rock I would satisfy you . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Vindicate me , O LORD , from my youth . Upon you I have leaned from before my birth ; you are he who took me from the womb ; you made me trust you at my mother 's breasts . On you was I cast from my birth , and from my mother 's womb . I praise you , for I am fearfully and wonderfully made . Wonderful are your works ; my soul knows it very well . My frame was not hidden from you , when I was being made in secret , intricately woven in the depths of the pit , in the regions dark and deep . Your wrath lies heavy upon me , and you overwhelm me with all your waves . Selah You have caused my companions to shun me ; you have made me a horror to them . I am shut in so that I cannot escape ; my eye grows dim through sorrow . Every day I call upon you , for you will answer me , O God ; incline your ear to my cry ! For my soul is full of troubles , and my life draws near to Sheol . I am counted among those who go down to the pit ; I am a man who has no strength , like one set loose among the dead , like the slain that lie in the grave , like those whom you remember no more , for they are cut off from your hand . You have put me in the depths of the pit , in the regions dark and deep . Your wrath lies heavy upon me , and you overwhelm me with all your waves . Selah You have caused my companions to shun me ; you have made me a horror to them . I am the talk of those who sit in the gate , and the drunkards make songs about me . But as for me , I shall behold your face in righteousness ; when I awake , I shall be satisfied with your likeness . The LORD Is My Rock and My Fortress END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Zayin Remember your word to your servant , in which you have made me hope . This is my comfort in my affliction , that your promise gives me life . The insolent utterly deride me , but I do not turn away from your law . When I think of your rules from of old , I take comfort , O LORD . Hot indignation seizes me because of the wicked , who forsake your law . Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness . For the LORD God is a sun and shield ; the LORD bestows favor and honor . No good thing does he withhold from those who walk uprightly . O LORD of hosts , my King and my God , for to you do I pray . O LORD , in the morning you hear my voice ; in the morning I prepare a sacrifice for you and watch . For you are not a God who delights in wickedness ; evil may not dwell with you . The boastful shall not stand before your eyes ; you hate all evildoers . You destroy those who speak lies ; the LORD abhors the bloodthirsty and deceitful man . But I , through the abundance of your steadfast love , but rebelled by the sea , at the Red Sea . Yet he saved them for his name 's sake . Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death , and burst their bonds apart . Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love , for his wondrous works to the children of man . Everyone utters lies to his neighbor ; with flattering lips and a double heart they speak . May the LORD cut off all flattering lips , the tongue that makes great boasts , those who say , "With our tongue we will prevail , our lips are with us ; who is master over us ? " "Because the poor are plundered , because the needy groan , I will now arise , " says the LORD ; "I will place him in the safety for which he longs . " The words of the LORD are pure words , like silver refined in a furnace on the ground , purified seven times . You , O LORD , will keep them ; you will guard us from this generation forever . On every side the wicked prowl , as vileness is exalted among the children of man . Though they plan evil against you , though they devise mischief , they will not succeed . For you will put them to flight ; you will aim at their faces with your bows . Be exalted , O God , above the heavens ! Let them praise the name of the LORD our God . They collapse and fall , but we rise and stand upright . O LORD , save the king ! May he answer us when we call . The King Rejoices in the LORD 's Strength END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD reigns ; he is robed in majesty ; the LORD is robed ; he has put on strength as his belt . Yes , the world is established ; it shall never be moved . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Vindicate me , O LORD , from my youth . Upon you I have leaned from before my birth ; you are he who took me from the womb ; you made me trust you at my mother 's breasts . On you was I cast from my birth , and from my mother 's womb . I praise you , for I am fearfully and wonderfully made . Wonderful are your works ; my soul knows it very well . My frame was not hidden from you , when I was being made in secret , intricately woven in the depths of the pit , in the regions dark and deep . Your wrath lies heavy upon me , and you overwhelm me with all your waves . Selah You have caused my companions to shun me ; you have made me a horror to them . I am shut in so that I cannot escape ; my eye grows dim through sorrow . Every day I call upon you , for you will answer me , O God ; incline your ear to my cry ! For my soul is full of troubles , and my life draws near to Sheol . I am counted among those who go down to the pit ; I am a man who has no strength , like one set loose among the dead , like the slain that lie in the grave , like those whom you remember no more , for they are cut off from your hand . You have put me in the depths of the pit , in the regions dark and deep . Your wrath lies heavy upon me , and you overwhelm me with all your waves . Selah You have caused my companions to shun me ; you have made me a horror to them . I am the talk of those who sit in the gate , and the drunkards make songs about me . But as for me , I shall behold your face in righteousness ; when I awake , I shall be satisfied with your likeness . The LORD Is My Rock and My Fortress END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The earth is the LORD 's and the fullness thereof , the world and those who dwell therein , for he has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the rivers . Who shall ascend the hill of the LORD ? And who shall stand in his holy place ? He who has clean hands and a pure heart , who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully . He will receive blessing from the LORD and righteousness from the God of his salvation . Such is the generation of those who seek him , who seek the face of the God of Jacob . He made it a decree in Joseph when he went out over the land of Egypt . Open your mouth wide , and I will fill it . "But my people did not listen to my voice ; Israel would not submit to me . So I gave them over to their stubborn hearts , to follow their own counsels . Oh , that my people would listen to me , that Israel would walk in my ways ! I would soon subdue their enemies and turn my hand against their foes . Those who hate the LORD would cringe toward him , and their fate would last forever . But he would feed you with the finest of the wheat , and with honey from the rock I would satisfy you . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty . I will say to the LORD , "My refuge and my fortress , my stronghold and my deliverer , my God , my rock , in whom I take refuge ; why have you rejected me ? Why do I go about mourning because of the oppression of the enemy ? " As with a deadly wound in my bones , my adversaries taunt me , while they say to me all the day long , for they have been put to shame and disappointed altogether who rejoice at my calamity ! Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor who magnify themselves against me ! Let those who delight in my righteousness shout for joy and be glad and say evermore , "Great is the LORD , who delights in the welfare of his servant ! " Then my tongue shall tell of your righteousness and of your praise all the day long . Remember your mercy , O LORD , and grant us your salvation . Let me hear what God the LORD will speak , for he will speak peace to his people , to his saints ; but let them not turn back to folly . Surely his salvation is near to those who fear him . For he knows our frame ; he remembers that we are dust . As for man , his days are like grass ; he flourishes like a flower of the field ; for the wind passes over it , and it is gone , and its place knows it no more . But the steadfast love of the LORD . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM God shall arise , his enemies shall be scattered ; and those who hate him shall flee before him ! As smoke is driven away , so you shall drive them away ; as wax melts before fire , so the wicked shall perish before God ! But the righteous shall be glad ; they shall exult before God ; they shall be jubilant with joy ! Sing to God , sing praises to his name ; lift up a song to him who rides through the deserts ; his name is the LORD ; exult before him ! Father of the fatherless and protector of widows is God in his holy habitation . God settles the solitary in a home ; he leads out the prisoners to prosperity , but the rebellious dwell in a parched land . O God , when you went out before your people , when you marched through the wilderness , Selah the earth quaked , the heavens poured down rain , before God , the God of Israel , who alone does wondrous things . Blessed be his glorious name forever ; may the whole earth be filled with his glory ! Amen and Amen ! The prayers of David , the son of Jesse , are ended . God Is My Strength and Portion Forever END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Qoph With my whole heart I cry ; answer me , O LORD ! See my affliction from those who hate me , O you who lift me up from the gates of death , that I may recount all your praises , that in the gates of the daughter of Zion I may rejoice in your salvation . I will sing to the LORD , all the earth ! Sing to the LORD a new song ; sing to the LORD , because he has dealt bountifully with me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Contend , O LORD , with those who contend with me ; fight against those who fight against me ! Take hold of shield and buckler and rise for my help ! Draw the spear and javelin against my pursuers ! Say to my soul , "I am your salvation ! " Let them be put to shame and dishonor who seek after my life ! Let them be turned back and brought to dishonor who delight in my hurt ! Let those be appalled because of their shame who say to me , "Aha , Aha ! " May all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you ; may those who love your salvation say evermore , "God is great ! " But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God . I trust in the steadfast love of God forever and ever . He will guide us forever . Why Should I Fear in Times of Trouble ? END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Lamedh Forever , O LORD , your word is firmly fixed in the heavens . Your faithfulness endures to all generations ; you have established the heavenly lights and the sun . You have fixed all the boundaries of the earth ; you have made summer and winter . Remember this , O LORD , how the enemy scoffs , and a foolish people reviles your name . Do not deliver the soul of your dove to the wild beasts ; do not forget the life of your poor forever . Have regard for the covenant , for the dark places of the land are full of the habitations of violence . Let not the downtrodden turn back in shame ; let the poor and needy praise your name . Arise , O God , judge the earth ; for you shall inherit all the nations ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , God of my salvation ; I cry out day and night before you . Let my prayer come before you ; incline your ear to me , and save me ! Be to me a rock of refuge , to which I may continually come ; you have given the command to save me , for you are my God ! Let your good Spirit lead me on level ground ! For your name 's sake , O LORD , pardon my guilt , for it is great . Who is the man who fears the LORD , who walks in his ways ! You shall eat the fruit of the labor of your hands ; you shall be blessed , and it shall be well with you . Your wife will be like a fruitful vine within your house ; your children will be like olive shoots around your table . Behold , thus shall the man be blessed who fears the LORD . The LORD is God , and he has made his light to shine upon us . Bind the festal sacrifice with cords , up to the horns of the altar ! You are my God , and I will tell what he has done for my soul . I cried to him with my mouth , and high praise was on my tongue . If I had cherished iniquity in my heart , the Lord would not have listened . But truly God has listened ; he has attended to the voice of my prayer . Blessed be God , because he has not rejected my prayer or removed his steadfast love from me ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Lord , you have been our dwelling place in all generations . Before the mountains were brought forth , or ever you had formed the earth and the world , from everlasting to everlasting you are God . You return man to dust and say , "Return , O children of man ! " For a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is past , or as a watch in the night . You sweep them away as with a flood ; they are like a dream , like grass that is renewed in the morning : in the morning it flourishes and is renewed ; in the evening it fades and withers . For we are brought to an end by your anger ; by your wrath we are dismayed . You have set our iniquities before you , our secret sins in the light of your face upon us , O LORD ! " You have put more joy in my heart than they have when their grain and wine abound . In peace I will both lie down and sleep ; for you alone , O LORD , make me dwell in safety . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven , whose sin is covered . Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked , nor stands in the way of sinners , nor sits in the seat of scoffers ; but his delight is in the law of the LORD ! Blessed be the name of the LORD , give praise , O servants of the LORD , praise the name of the LORD : "O LORD , I pray , deliver my soul ! " Gracious is the LORD , and greatly to be praised ; he is to be feared above all gods . For all the gods of the peoples are worthless idols , but the LORD made the heavens . Splendor and majesty are before him ; strength and beauty are in his sanctuary . Ascribe to the LORD , O you his angels , you mighty ones who do his word , obeying the voice of his word ! Bless the LORD , O you his angels , you mighty ones who do his word , obeying the voice of his word ! Bless the LORD , all his works , in all places of his dominion . Bless the LORD , O my soul ! Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will sing of the steadfast love of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him , and he makes known to them his covenant . My eyes are ever toward the LORD , for he has wondrously shown his steadfast love to me when I was in a besieged city . I had said in my alarm , "All mankind are liars . " What shall I render to the LORD for all his benefits to me ? I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on the name of the LORD I cut them off ! They surrounded me like bees ; they went out like a fire among thorns ; in the name of the LORD is to be praised ! The LORD is high above all nations , and his glory above the heavens ! Who is like the LORD our God , and worship at his holy mountain ; for the LORD our God is holy ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give thanks to the LORD with the lyre , with the lyre and the sound of melody ! With trumpets and the sound of the horn make a joyful noise before the King , the LORD ! Let the sea roar , and all that fills it ; the world and those who dwell therein , for he has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the rivers . Who shall ascend the hill of the LORD ? And who is a rock , except our God ? - the God who equipped me with strength and made my way blameless . He made my feet like the feet of a deer and set me secure on the heights . He trains my hands for war , and my fingers for battle ; he is my steadfast love and my fortress , my stronghold and my deliverer , my God , my rock , in whom I take refuge , who subdues peoples under me . O LORD , you have brought up my soul from Sheol ; you restored me to life from among those who go down to the pit . Sing praises to the LORD with the lyre ; make melody to him with the harp of ten strings ! Sing to him a new song ; play skillfully on the strings , with loud shouts . For the word of the LORD proves true ; he is a shield for all those who take refuge in him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed is the one who considers the poor ! In the day of trouble the LORD delivers him ; the LORD protects him and keeps him alive ; he is called blessed in the land ; you do not give him up to the will of my adversaries ; for false witnesses have risen against me , and they breathe out violence . I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the LORD in the land of the living ! Wait for the LORD ; be strong , and let your heart take courage , all you who wait for the LORD shall inherit the land , but those cursed by him shall be cut off . The steps of a man are established by the LORD , when he delights in his way ; though he fall , he shall not be cast headlong , for the LORD upholds his hand . I have been young , and now am old , yet I have not forgotten your statutes . How long must your servant endure ? When will you judge those who persecute me ? The insolent have dug pitfalls for me ; they do not live according to your law . All your commandments are sure ; they persecute me with falsehood ; help me ! They have almost made an end of me on earth , but I have not forsaken your precepts . In your steadfast love give me life , that I may keep your law and observe it with my whole heart . Lead me in the path of your commandments , for I delight in it . Incline my heart to your testimonies , and not to selfish gain ! Turn my eyes from looking at worthless things ; and give me life in your ways . Confirm to your servant your promise , that you may be feared . I wait for the LORD , my soul waits , and in his word I hope ; my soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning . O Israel , hope in the LORD from this time forth and forevermore . Praise the LORD ! The LORD 's Faithfulness Endures Forever : Praise the LORD , all nations ! Extol him , all peoples ! For great is the LORD , and greatly to be praised ; he is to be feared above all gods . For all the gods of the peoples are worthless idols , but the LORD made the heavens . Splendor and majesty are before him ; strength and beauty are in his sanctuary . Ascribe to the LORD , O you his saints , and give thanks to his holy name . For his anger is but for a moment , and his favor is for a lifetime . Weeping may tarry for the night , but joy comes with the morning . As for me , I said , "O LORD , be gracious to me , and raise me up , that I may be safe and have regard for your statutes continually ! You spurn all who go astray from your statutes , for their cunning is in vain . All the wicked of the earth you discard like dross , therefore I love your testimonies . My flesh trembles for fear of you , and I am afraid of your judgments . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear my voice , O God , in the abundance of your steadfast love answer me in your saving faithfulness . Deliver me from sinking in the mire ; let me be delivered from my enemies and from the deep waters . Let not the flood sweep over me , or the deep swallow me up , or the pit close its mouth over me . Answer me , O LORD , my rock and my redeemer . Trust in the Name of the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM When the LORD restored the fortunes of Zion , we were like those who dream . Then our mouth was filled with laughter , and our tongue with shouts of joy ; I will sing and make melody to the LORD . Hear , O LORD , and try me ; test my heart and my mind . For your steadfast love is great above the heavens ; your faithfulness reaches to the clouds . Be exalted , O God , above the heavens ! Let your glory be over all the earth ! That your beloved ones may be delivered , give salvation by your right hand and answer us ! God has spoken in his holiness : "With exultation I will divide up Shechem and portion out the Vale of Succoth . Gilead is mine ; Manasseh is mine ; Ephraim is my helmet , Judah my scepter . Moab is my washbasin ; upon Edom I cast my shoe ; over Philistia I shout in triumph . " Who will bring me to the fortified city ? Who will lead me to Edom ? Have you not rejected us , O God ? You do not go out , O God , with our armies . Oh grant us help against the foe , for vain is the salvation of man ! With God we shall do valiantly ; it is he who will tread down our foes . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Lord , you have been our dwelling place in all generations . Before the mountains were brought forth , or ever you had formed the earth and the world , from everlasting to everlasting you are God . You return man to dust and say , "Return , O children of man ! " For a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is past , or as a watch in the night . You sweep them away as with a flood ; they are like a dream , like grass that is renewed in the morning : in the morning it flourishes and is renewed ; in the evening it fades and withers . For we are brought to an end by your anger ; by your wrath we are dismayed . You have set our iniquities before you , our secret sins in the light of your face upon us , O LORD ! " You have put more joy in my heart than they have when their grain and wine abound . In peace I will both lie down and sleep ; for you alone , O LORD , make me dwell in safety . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Qoph With my whole heart I cry ; answer me , O LORD ! See my affliction from those who hate me , O you who lift me up from the gates of death , that I may recount all your praises , that in the gates of the daughter of Zion I may rejoice in your salvation . I will sing to the LORD , all the earth ! Sing to the LORD a new song ; sing to the LORD , because he has dealt bountifully with me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will sing of steadfast love and justice ; to you , O LORD ! O LORD , we pray , give us success ! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the LORD , give praise , O servants of the LORD , praise the name of the LORD ! " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , my heart is not lifted up ; my eyes are not raised too high ; I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me . But I have calmed and quieted my soul , like a weaned child with its mother ; like a weaned child is my soul within me . O Israel , hope in the LORD ! For with the LORD there is steadfast love , and with him is plentiful redemption . And he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give ear to my prayer , O God , and hide not yourself from my plea for mercy ! Attend to me , and answer me ; I am restless in my complaint and I moan , because of the noise of the enemy , because of the oppression of the wicked . For they have no pangs until death ; their bodies are fat and sleek . They are not in trouble as others are ; they are not stricken like the rest of mankind . Therefore pride is their necklace ; violence covers them as a garment . Their eyes swell out through fatness ; their hearts overflow with follies . They scoff and speak with malice ; loftily they threaten oppression . They set their mouths against the heavens , and their tongue struts through the earth . Therefore his people turn back to them , and find no fault in them . And they say , "How can God know ? Is there knowledge in the Most High ? " Behold , these are the wicked ; always at ease , they increase in riches . All in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence . For all the day long I have been stricken and rebuked every morning . If I had said , "I will speak thus , " I would have betrayed the generation of your children . But when I thought how to understand this , it seemed to me a wearisome task , until I went into the sanctuary of God ; then I discerned their end . Truly you set them in slippery places ; you make them fall to ruin . How they are destroyed in a moment , swept away utterly by terrors ! Like a dream when one awakes , O Lord , when you rouse yourself , you despise them as phantoms . When my soul was embittered , when I was pricked in heart , I was brutish and ignorant ; I was like a beast toward you . Nevertheless , I am continually with you ; you hold my right hand . You guide me with your counsel , and afterward you will receive me to glory . Whom have I in heaven but you ? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you . My flesh and my heart may fail , but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever . For behold , those who are far from you shall perish ; you put an end to everyone who is unfaithful to you . But for me it is good to be near God ; I have made the Lord GOD my refuge , that I may tell of all your works . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM My heart overflows with a pleasing theme ; I address my verses to the king ; my tongue is like the pen of a ready scribe . You are the most handsome of the sons of men ; grace is poured upon your lips ; therefore God has blessed you forever . Gird your sword on your thigh , O mighty one , in your splendor and majesty ! In your majesty ride out victoriously for the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness ; let your right hand teach you awesome deeds ! Your arrows are sharp in the heart of the king 's enemies ; the peoples fall under you . Your throne , O God , is forever and ever . The enemy came to an end in everlasting ruins ; their cities you rooted out ; the very memory of them has perished . But the LORD sits enthroned forever ; he has established his throne for justice , and he judges the world with righteousness ; he judges the peoples with uprightness . The LORD is a stronghold for the oppressed , a stronghold in times of trouble . And those who know your name put their trust in you , for you , O LORD , among the nations , and sing to your name . Great salvation he brings to his king , and shows steadfast love to his anointed , to David and his offspring forever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will give thanks to the LORD with my whole heart ; I will recount all of your wonderful deeds . I will be glad and exult in you ; I will sing praise to my God while I have being . May my meditation be pleasing to him , for I rejoice in the LORD . Let sinners be consumed from the earth , and let the wicked be no more ! Bless the LORD , O my soul , and forget not all his benefits , who forgives all your iniquity , who heals all your diseases , who redeems your life from the pit , who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy , who satisfies you with good so that your youth is renewed like the eagle 's . The LORD works righteousness and justice for all who are oppressed . He made known his ways to Moses , his acts to the people of Israel . The LORD is merciful and gracious , slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness . Turn to me and be gracious to me , for I am lonely and afflicted . The troubles of my heart are enlarged ; bring me out of my distresses . Consider my affliction and my trouble , and forgive all my sins . Consider how many are my foes , and with what violent hatred they hate me . Oh , guard my soul , and deliver me ! Let me not be put to shame in a moment . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM As a deer pants for flowing streams , so pants my soul for you , O God , have heard my vows ; you have given me the heritage of those who fear your name . Prolong the life of the king ; may his years endure to all generations ! May he be like rain that falls on the mown grass , like showers that water the earth ! In his days may the righteous flourish , and peace abound , till the moon be no more ! May he have dominion from sea to sea , and from the River to the ends of the earth . Your right hand is filled with righteousness . Let Mount Zion be glad ! Let the daughters of Judah rejoice , because of your judgments , O LORD . For you , O LORD , have mercy upon us , for we have had more than enough of the scorn of those who are at ease , of the contempt of the proud . Our Help Is in the Name of the LORD Our God END_PSALM
