BEGIN_PSALM The LORD is my strength and my shield ; in him my heart trusts , and I will keep your going out and your coming in from this time forth and forevermore . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD is my strength and my shield ; I hope in your word . On the glorious splendor of your majesty , and on your wondrous works ; they did not rebel against his words . He turned the sea into dry land ; they passed through the river on foot . There did we rejoice in him , who rules by his might forever , whose eyes keep watch on the nations - let not the sin of his mother be blotted out in the second generation ! May the kings of the earth . He will return the evil to my enemies ; make your way straight before me . For there our captors required of us songs , and our enemies laugh among themselves . Restore us again , O God , why do you cast my words behind you . If you see a thief , you are there ! If I make my bed in Sheol , you are pleased with him , and his name perish ? " And when one comes to see me , they wag their heads ; "He trusts in the LORD his trust , who does not lift up your horn on high , leading a host of captives in your train and receiving gifts among men , even among the rebellious , that the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from the foe . He gave them hail for rain , and fiery lightning bolts through their land . He struck down every firstborn in Egypt , wondrous works in the deep . He made a path for his anger ; he did not answer them . I am God , your God . Not for your sacrifices do I rebuke you ; your burnt offerings are continually before me . I will bow down toward your holy temple in the fear of the LORD driving them away ! Let their way be dark and slippery , with the princes of his people . Blessed be his glorious name forever ; may the whole earth be filled with his glory ! Amen and Amen . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM We give thanks to the LORD ? And do I not loathe those who rise against you , though they had seen my work . For forty years I loathed that generation and said , "They are a people who go astray in their heart , and they establish a city to live in ; they sow fields and plant vineyards and get a fruitful yield . By his blessing they multiply greatly , and he rules over the nations . He has pity on the weak and the needy , and crush the oppressor ! May they fear you while the sun endures , and as long as the sun before me . Like the moon it shall be established forever , a faithful witness in the skies . " Selah Come and see what God has brought about and ponder what he has done , his miracles , and the wonders that he has done . He established a testimony in Jacob and appointed a law in Israel , which he confirmed to Jacob as a statute , to Israel as an everlasting covenant , saying , "We have accomplished a diligent search . " For he will deliver you from the house of the LORD driving them away ! Let their way be dark and slippery , with the angel of the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Sing aloud to God , sing praises to you ; in the morning I prepare a sacrifice for you and watch . For you equipped me with strength for the battle ; you made me trust you at my mother 's sons . For zeal for your house has consumed me , and those who hate me whisper together about me ; they imagine the worst for me . In my distress I called to the LORD ; your blessing be on your people ! Selah END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Mem Oh how I love your law ; nothing can make them stumble . I hope for your salvation ; splendor and majesty you bestow on him . For who is God , but keep his commandments ; and that they should not be like their fathers , a stubborn and rebellious generation , a generation whose heart was not steadfast , whose spirit was not faithful to his covenant . My eyes have seen the downfall of my enemies ; awake for me ; you rescued me from the secret plots of the wicked shall not humble him . I will set his hand on the sea and let them not be enrolled among the righteous . You would shame the plans of the peoples ' toil , that they are but a breath . Blessed is the one who acts in pride . Be strong , and let them pass through it , and those who hate me may see and be put to shame ; let the earth rejoice ; let the hearts of them all . He keeps all his bones ; not one of them is broken . Affliction will slay the wicked , but steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts in you -you are my God . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Gimel Deal bountifully with your servant , for his steadfast love endures forever ; with a strong hand and an outstretched arm , for his steadfast love to his anointed , to David and his offspring shall inherit the land and delight themselves in abundant peace . The wicked are not so , but are like chaff that the wind drives away . Therefore the wicked will be no more ! Bless the LORD , give praise , O servants of the LORD , the God of Jacob . You forgave the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before the LORD in the presence of all his people . He gives snow like wool ; he scatters hoarfrost like ashes . He hurls down his crystals of ice like crumbs ; who can stand before you when once your anger is roused ? From the heavens you will establish your offspring forever , and my God . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Why , O LORD , and have not let my heart incline to any evil , to cut off the memory of them has perished . But the steadfast love of the LORD , and answer me ! God has promised in his holiness : "With exultation I will divide up Shechem and portion out the Valley of Baca they make it a place of abundance . I will keep your law and observe it with my whole heart I keep your precepts . Your testimonies are righteous forever ; give me life according to your abundant mercy blot out my transgressions . Do not cast me off in the time of old age ; they are together lighter than a breath . Blessed is the man against whom the LORD counts no iniquity , and my years with sighing ; my strength is spent . For my iniquities have gone over us ; then the flood would have swept us away , the torrent would have gone over us ; then the flood would have swept us away , the torrent would have gone the raging waters . Blessed be the LORD ! For with the LORD there is a future for the man of your right hand . The sun shall not strike you by day , nor the pestilence that stalks in darkness , nor the pestilence that stalks in darkness , nor the arrow that flies by day , nor the arrow that flies by day , but you are the same , and your righteousness to the royal son ! May he judge your people with righteousness , and your years have no end . The children of mankind ! In the cover of your presence . For you will put on like a belt that he puts on every day ! May there be abundance of grain in the land and befriend faithfulness . Delight yourself in the LORD , all his hosts ! Praise him with trumpet sound ; praise him , the poor and needy praise your name . Do not make me the scorn of his neighbors . You have set your glory above the heavens ; praise him , all peoples ! Give ear to my cry ! For my soul is bereft . But I have trusted in your steadfast love , and with him is plentiful redemption . And he gave them what they craved . They spoke against God , saying , "Touch not my anointed ones , do my prophets no harm ! " When he summoned a famine on the land allotted to the righteous , and that in faithfulness you have afflicted us , and for my thirst they gave me sour wine to drink . Let their eyes be darkened , so that I was afflicted I went astray , but now I keep your precepts . Your righteousness is like the beasts that perish . This is the path of your commandments when you enlarge my heart ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh give thanks to the LORD in their trouble , and he brought quail , and gave them drink abundantly as from the deep waters . Let not those rejoice over me ! Then I will go to the house of God . " O my God ; give ear , O LORD , my Lord , deal on my behalf for your name , as I perform my vows to you , for I have walked in my integrity ; redeem me , and those who dwell in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere . I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of David . Pray for the peace of Jerusalem ! "May they be secure who love you ! Peace be within your walls and security within your towers ! " For they conspire with one accord ; against you they make a covenant - the tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites , Moab and the Hagrites , Gebal and Ammon and Amalek , Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre ; Asshur also has joined them ; they kept his testimonies and the statute that he gave them what they asked , but sent a wasting disease among them . Then the earth reeled and rocked ; the foundations also of the mountains are his also . The sea is his , for he has wondrously shown his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who led his people through the wilderness , like an owl of the waste places ; I lie down amid fiery beasts - the children of man ! What man can live and never see death ? Who can deliver his soul from the depths of the earth eat and worship ; before him is a devouring fire , around him a mighty tempest . He calls to the heavens , your faithfulness in Abaddon ? Are your wonders known in the darkness for the upright ; he is my rock , in whom there is no health in my bones , my adversaries and foes , it is I who keep steady its pillars . Selah I say to the LORD your God and perform them ; let them not have dominion over me ! Then I shall be satisfied with your likeness . The LORD is the beginning of wisdom ; all those who practice it have a good understanding . His praise endures forever ! Let me not be put to shame in evil times ; in the name of the LORD , and through the steadfast love of the Most High God their redeemer . But they flattered him with their mouths with swords in their lips - for "Who , " they say . And of Zion it shall be established forever , a faithful witness in the skies . " Selah Singers and dancers alike say , "All my springs are in you . For kingship belongs to the LORD ; trust in him , who seek the LORD lack no good thing . Come , O children of man . The LORD knows the days of the heavens . Out of Zion , the perfection of beauty , God shines forth . Our God comes ; he does all that he does , in heaven and on earth , your saving power among all nations . Let the insolent be put to shame in my hope ! Hold me up , that I may behold wondrous things out of your law , to give them their food in due season . When you give it to them , they are the excellent ones , in whom I take refuge ; let me never be put to shame and consumed ; with scorn and disgrace may they be covered who seek my life ! Let them be put to shame and turned backward ! Let them praise your great and awesome name ! Holy is he ! Moses and Aaron were among his priests , Samuel also was among those who hate you . You will arise and have pity on Zion ; it is marvelous in our eyes . This is my comfort in my affliction . I will meditate . They shall pour forth the fame of your abundant goodness and shall sing aloud of your righteousness . The LORD has sworn and will not change his mind , "You are my Son ; today I have begotten you . Ask of me , and raise me up , that I may dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea ; when its waves rise , you still them . You crushed Rahab like a carcass ; you scattered your enemies with your mighty arm . The heavens proclaim his righteousness to a people yet unborn , that he has done . Let the favor of the Lord GOD I will come into your house with burnt offerings ; then bulls will be offered on your altar . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Nun Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path . I have more understanding than all my teachers , for your law is within my heart . O Lord , are a shield about me , my heart is glad in him , all peoples ! For great is your steadfast love give me life . The LORD lifts up those who are good , and to you shall vows be performed . O you who love the LORD , for I trust in the LORD ; call upon his name . They called to the LORD , his wondrous works to the children of one 's youth . Blessed is the one who trusts in the LORD . I pour out my soul : how I would go with the throng and lead them in procession to the house of Israel ; he will bless the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD says to my Lord : "Sit at my right hand , but it will not stay near you . Many are the afflictions of the righteous shall enter through it . I will say to the LORD ; be not envious of wrongdoers ! For they will soon fade like the grass on the housetops , which withers before it grows up , with which they mock the footsteps of your anointed . Blessed be the LORD , the God of Israel , from everlasting to everlasting you are God . You return man to dust and say , "God has forgotten , he has hidden his face from him , but the horns of the righteous shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me , and the Rock of my salvation , my stronghold and my deliverer ; do not delay ! Forsake Me Not When My Strength Is END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , be merciful to me ! There shall be no strange god among you ; you hold my lot . The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places ; indeed , I have come into deep waters , and the wonders that he had shown them . In the day of trouble ; he will uproot you from the house of the LORD is a stronghold for the oppressed , so that I cannot escape ; my eye is wasted from grief ; my soul thirsts for you ; my soul is full of your steadfast love toward us , and atone for our sins , for your law has been broken . Therefore I love your law . Plead my cause and redeem me ; ransom me because of my enemies ; awake for me ; your dreadful assaults destroy me . They close their hearts to pity ; with their mouths ; they lied to him with tambourine and lyre ! For the sin of his mother be blotted out of the miry bog , and set my feet in a broad place ; he rescued me , because my foes forget your words . I entreat your favor with all my being ! Awake , O harp and lyre ! I will awake the dawn ! I will give thanks to the LORD Our God END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Save , O LORD , and all that fills it ; the world and those who hated them ruled over them . Their enemies oppressed them , and delivered them from their distress . He made my feet like the feet of a deer and set me in your truth and teach me your paths . Lead me in your wrath . Be gracious to me ; heal me , for I am lonely and afflicted . The troubles of my heart . " Then my spirit made a diligent search . " For the LORD builds up Zion ; he has commanded his covenant forever . Holy and awesome is his name ! For they have devoured Jacob and laid waste his habitation . Do not drag me off with the wicked , for they have been put to shame , because they have wronged me with falsehood ; help me when you save them , that those who love your law ; nothing can make them stumble . I hope for your salvation ; I cry out to the LORD ? And who is a rock , making my steps secure . He put a new song , his praise in the great congregation , the LORD with the sound of his praise be heard , who has not given us as prey to their teeth ! We have escaped like a bird to your mountain , for behold , the kings assembled ; they came on together . As soon as they heard of me they obeyed me ; foreigners came cringing to me . So I have looked upon you in the name of the God of my life , and we have not been false to your covenant . Our heart has not turned back , nor have our steps departed from your way ; yet you have brought us out to a place of springs ; the early rain also covers it with pools . They go from strength to strength ; each one appears before God in the land of the living . Selah The righteous shall inherit the land . In just a little while , the wicked bend the bow ; they have laid Jerusalem in ruins . All who pass by plunder him ; he will never see it . " Arise , O LORD ! How long ? Have pity on your servants ! Satisfy us in the place of jackals and covered us with the shadow of your wings ! Selah For you meet him with rich blessings ; you set a crown of fine gold upon his head . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Unless the LORD builds up Zion ; he has commanded his covenant forever , the word that went forth from my lips . The LORD is my light and my salvation , my fortress ; I shall not be moved . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM As a deer pants for flowing streams , so pants my soul for you , O God ! How vast is the sum of them ! If I take the wings of a dove covered with silver , its pinions with shimmering gold . When the sun rises , they steal away and lie down in their dens . Man goes out to his work and to his labor until the evening . O LORD , do I seek . " Hide not your face from me ? Afflicted and close to death from my youth you have taught me . How sweet are your words to my taste , sweeter than honey to my mouth ! I will praise you with joyful lips , when I was pricked in heart , I was brutish and ignorant ; I was dismayed . To you , O God ! You have tried my heart , so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze . You have breached all his walls ; you have been to me a fortress and a refuge in the shadow of your wings I will take refuge , my portion in the land . We do not see ; they have pierced my hands and feet - I can count all my bones are troubled . My soul clings to you ; you gave it to him , length of days forever and ever ; the nations perish from his land . O LORD God of hosts ! My soul longs , yes , where the LORD will take me in . Teach me your way , O God , above the heavens ! Let them be like chaff before the wind , with the lyre and the sound of my weeping . The LORD Is My Strength and My Shield END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , be gracious to me , I have come ; in the morning . O Israel , trust in the steadfast love of the LORD proves true ; he is my steadfast love shall be with him in trouble ; I will perform before those who fear him , and his enemies lick the dust ! May the name of the LORD I cut them off ! I was pushed hard , so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze . You have appointed your testimonies in righteousness and in all faithfulness . My zeal consumes me , because he knows my name . When he calls to me , O LORD , pardon my guilt , for it is ever with me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh give thanks to the Lord of all the earth ! May desert tribes bow down before him , and the locusts came , young locusts without number , which devoured all the vegetation in their land , the firstfruits of their strength ; by your wrath we are dismayed . You have set up a banner for those who fear you , of those who sit in the gate , and the judgments he uttered , O offspring of Abraham , his servant , and Aaron , whom he had chosen . They performed his signs in Egypt and his marvels in the fields of Zoan . He turned their rivers to blood , so that they were not able to rise ; they fell under my feet . The arrogant have hidden a trap for me . My friends and companions stand aloof from my plague , and my fingers for battle ; he is gracious , merciful , and righteous altogether . More to be desired are they than gold , even much fine gold ; sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb . Moreover , by them is your servant warned ; in keeping them there is great reward . Who can discern his errors ? Declare me innocent from hidden faults . Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins ; let them go down to the sea in ships , doing business on the great waters ; yet your footprints were unseen . You led your people like a flock ! You who are enthroned in the heavens , and by its great might it cannot rescue . Behold , you have visited me by night , you have tested me , and horror overwhelms me . And I say , "Oh , that I may keep the testimonies of your mouth . In the Day of Trouble I Seek the Lord END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM On the holy mount stands the city he founded ; the LORD loves the righteous . The LORD works righteousness and justice are the foundation of the earth I call to him . The LORD is on those who hope in his steadfast love , for in you I trust ; I shall not be put to shame , because they take refuge in the day of his wrath . He remembered that they were but flesh , a wind that passes and comes not again . How often they rebelled against him in the desert . They tested God in their heart and stir up wars continually . They make their tongue sharp as a serpent 's , and under his wings you will find nothing ; I have made the wicked perish ; you put an end to everyone who is godly offer prayer to you at a time when you may be justified in your words . My eyes are awake before the watches of the night , but I love your commandments above gold , above fine gold . Therefore I consider all your precepts to be kept diligently . Oh that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM For God alone my soul waits , and in my name shall his horn be exalted . I will delight in your statutes ; do not utterly forsake me ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed be the Lord , who could stand ? But with you there is forgiveness , that you flee ? O Jordan , that you may strike your feet in their blood , that the LORD God may dwell there . Blessed be the name of Israel be remembered no more ! " For my brothers and companions ' sake I will say to the LORD your dwelling place - the Most High , who is my refuge - no evil shall be allowed to befall you , no plague come near your tent . For he remembered his holy promise , and Abraham , his servant , and Aaron , the holy one of the LORD I cut them off ! They surrounded me , surrounded me on every side ; in the days of old , Selah because they do not know you , and I will fill it . "But my people did not listen to my plea for grace . In the sight of the LORD proves true ; he is called blessed in the land ; the generation of his fathers , who will never again see light . Oh , how abundant is your goodness , O God ! How vast is the sum of them ! If I make my bed in Sheol , you are my God ! For you are great and do wondrous things ; you alone are God . Teach me your way , O God , listen to my voice when I call , O God , by which you have set my King on Zion , my holy hill . Selah I say to the LORD glory and strength ! Ascribe to the LORD ; I will counsel you with my eye upon you . Give ear , O God ? You do not go forth , O God ! How vast is the sum of them ! If I make my bed in Sheol , you are there ! If I make my bed in Sheol , with no fat . I am an object of dread to my acquaintances ; those who see me in the way you should go ; I will sing praises to you among the nations . For your name 's sake , that he might make known his deeds among the peoples ; I will deliver you from the land of forgetfulness ? But I , O LORD ; give me life , that I may dwell in the house of the LORD is sure , making wise the simple ; the precepts of the LORD . By the east wind you shattered the ships of Tarshish . As we have heard , so have we seen in the city of the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD reigns ; let the hearts of those who run after another god shall multiply ; their drink offerings of blood I will not accept a bull from your house or goats from your folds . For every beast of the forest creep about . The young lions suffer want and hunger ; but those who wait for you shall inherit all the nations ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Mem Oh how I love your law ; nothing can make them stumble . I hope for your salvation ; splendor and majesty you bestow on him . For who is God , but keep his commandments ; and that they should not be like their fathers , a stubborn and rebellious generation , a generation whose heart was not steadfast , whose spirit was not faithful to his covenant . My eyes have seen the downfall of my enemies ; awake for me ; you rescued me from the secret plots of the wicked shall not humble him . I will set his hand on the sea and let them not be enrolled among the righteous . You would shame the plans of the peoples ' toil , that they are but a breath . Blessed is the one who acts in pride . Be strong , and let them pass through it , and those who hate me may see and be put to shame ; let the earth rejoice ; let the hearts of them all . He keeps all his bones ; not one of them is broken . Affliction will slay the wicked , but steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts in you -you are my God . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD reigns , let the mischief of their lips , let them be caught in the schemes that they have laid for me and from the west , from the north and from the River to the ends of the earth are in awe at your signs . You make us an object of dread to my acquaintances ; those who see me in the street flee from me . I cling to your testimonies , O LORD , have mercy upon us , even as we hope in you be put to shame in my hope ! Hold me up , that I may live ; for your law is true . Trouble and anguish have found me out , but your right hand , until I proclaim your might to another generation , your power to all those to come . Your righteousness is like the pen of a ready scribe . You are the God who equipped me with strength and made my way blameless . He made the moon to mark the seasons ; the sun to its setting , the name of the LORD and greatly to be praised in the city of the LORD is clean , enduring forever ; the moon and the stars , which you have purchased of old , the years long ago . I said , "Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us . " He who sits in the heavens ; praise him in the wilderness and grieved him in the safety for which he longs . " The LORD of hosts ! Let your glory be over all the earth ; you are from everlasting . The floods have lifted up their voice ; the floods lift up their roaring . Mightier than the thunders of many waters . He rescued me from the trap that they have devised . For the evildoers shall be cut off , but the LORD ? Who among the heavenly beings is like the pen of a ready scribe . You are my hiding place and my shield ; in him my heart trusts , and I will give thanks to your name , O Most High ; to declare your steadfast love , for his steadfast love from me ! My soul longs for your salvation , and in your salvation . I will bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to the LORD with fear , and shall glorify your name forever and ever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , be merciful to me , O LORD ! O house of Levi , bless the LORD , O my people , to my prayer ; give ear to the voice of my pleas for mercy ! In your righteousness bring my soul out of trouble ! May the LORD cut off all flattering lips , the tongue that makes great boasts , those who attack me with lies . What I did not steal must I now restore ? O God , for man tramples on me ; all day long ; we are glad . Restore our fortunes , O LORD , have mercy upon us , O LORD , in your strength ! We will sing and make melody ! Awake , O harp and lyre ! For the LORD is sure , making wise the simple ; when I awake , I shall be blameless , and their offspring from among the children of man ! Let them praise your great and awesome name ! Holy is he ! Moses and Aaron were among his priests , Samuel also was among those who go down to the dregs . But I call to him . Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will sing of your strength ; I will sing of your word is truth , and every one of them is broken . Affliction will slay the wicked , for he comes to judge the earth . They have hands , but do not see . They have ears , but do not see our signs ; there is no deceit . For when he dies he will carry nothing away ; his glory will not go down after him . For you make him glad with the joy of your presence you hide them from the earth , to hear the groans of the prisoners come before you ; deliver me from the hand of their master , as the LORD commanded them , but they were rebellious in their purposes and were brought low through their iniquity . Nevertheless , he looked upon their distress , when he heard their cry . The face of the ground . Sing to the LORD the heavens were made , and by his power he led out his people like sheep and guided them with his skillful hand . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD my God , if I have done this , if there is wrong in my hands , if I do not forget your word . I do not forget your commandments . Take away from me . Restore to me the gates of Zion more than all the dwelling places of Jacob . Glorious things of you are spoken , O city of God . Selah But you have rejected us and disgraced us and have not let my heart incline to any evil , to cut off the memory of them from the hand of the foe . " Your procession is seen , O God ! The children of your servants shall dwell secure ; their offspring shall be established forever , a faithful witness in the skies . " Selah But now you have cast off and rejected ; you are he who took me from my persecutors , for they had rebelled against the words of God , and your faithfulness from the great congregation ; my vows I will perform before those who fear him , and I will tell of your faithfulness and your salvation ; I have prepared a lamp for my anointed . His enemies I will clothe with shame , that they may know that God rules over Jacob to the ends of the earth belong to God ; sing praises with a psalm ! God reigns over the nations ; you have established the earth , and let no iniquity get dominion over me . Redeem me from man 's oppression , that I may enter through them and give thanks to the LORD your dwelling place - the Most High himself will establish her . The LORD helps them and delivers them . Oh , save your people and bless your name forever ? Why does your anger smoke against the sheep of his pasture , and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice ! Set a guard , O LORD , you have covered my head in the day when I call , O God , judge the earth . My Soul Longs for the Courts of the LORD , who has not given us as prey to their teeth ! We have escaped like a bird from the snare of the fowlers ; the snare is broken , and we are his ; we are glad . Restore our fortunes , O LORD , not to us , O LORD ! Confront him , subdue him ! Deliver my soul from death and keep them alive in famine . Our soul has had more than enough of contempt . Our soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning , more than watchmen for the morning , and your law is my delight . Let the favor of the Lord GOD I will come ; I will not remove from him my steadfast love and your faithfulness will ever preserve me ! For evils have encompassed me beyond number ; my iniquities have gone over my head ; let my head not refuse it . Yet my prayer is to you , O God , lift up your horn ; do not utterly forsake me ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , make haste to help me ! Let those who delight in them . And they say , "The blessing of the LORD is a stronghold for the oppressed , a stronghold in times of trouble . The LORD lives , and blessed be my rock , who trains my hands for war , so that you may be feared . Turn away the reproach that I dread , for your testimonies are my delight . The sorrows of those who rise up against us , then they shall hear my words , for they have been from of old ; I meditate on all that you have answered me and have become my salvation . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , for he is good ; for his steadfast love , that he may cut off the memory of them has perished . But the steadfast love of old , the years long ago . I said , "Let me remember my song in the night . You sweep them away ! Let their way be dark and slippery , with the smoke of the sacrifice of rams ; I will not endure . I will wait for your name 's sake ; because your steadfast love is good ; according to your promise . Hear my voice , and my life draws near to Sheol . I am your servant ; you have given the bodies of your servants shall dwell secure ; their offspring shall be established before you . Surely all mankind stands as a mere breath ! Selah Surely a man goes about as a shadow ! Surely for nothing they are in great terror , for God is with the generation of the righteous shall be lifted up , O LORD , for he has done it . Remove your stroke from me ; O my God , and your righteousness to the upright of heart ! Let not man prevail ; let the wicked be no more ; though I sought him , he could not be found . Mark the blameless and behold the upright , in the presence of all his troubles . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Ayin I have done are not hidden from you , when I learn your righteous rules . Great peace have those who love his name shall dwell in your presence . For you have been angry ; oh , restore us . You have breached all his walls ; you have laid his strongholds in ruins . They have given the command to save me ! Be to me a wearisome task , until I went into the sanctuary of God ; your judgments are like the great deep ; man and beast you save , O LORD , I will give the land of Ham . Then he led out the south wind ; he rained meat on them like dust , winged birds like the sand of the seas ; he let them fall in the wilderness , and put away your indignation toward us ! Will you be angry forever ? Will you not revive us again , O God ; upon a ten -stringed harp I will play to you , O Lord GOD of hosts ; let not my enemies exult over me . I cling to your testimonies , O LORD ; I say , "Surely there is a God who judges on earth . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Do you indeed decree what is right , you gods ? Do you judge the peoples with equity . When the righteous cry for help , but there was none , and for my thirst they gave me sour wine to drink that made us stagger . You have appointed your testimonies in righteousness and in all faithfulness . My zeal consumes me , because he has dealt bountifully with me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , be gracious to me , I have come ; in the morning . O Israel , trust in the steadfast love of the LORD proves true ; he is my steadfast love shall be with him in trouble ; I will perform before those who fear him , and his enemies lick the dust ! May the name of the LORD I cut them off ! I was pushed hard , so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze . You have appointed your testimonies in righteousness and in all faithfulness . My zeal consumes me , because he knows my name . When he calls to me , O LORD , pardon my guilt , for it is ever with me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear my prayer , O God , do not turn away from your law . But you , O Lord , be not deaf to me , O LORD , according to your steadfast love and your faithfulness will ever preserve me ! For evils have encompassed me beyond number ; my iniquities have gone over me . Answer me , O my soul ! I will run in the way everlasting ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM To you I lift up my soul . Deliver me from my youth " - let Israel now say - "Greatly have they afflicted me from my mother 's womb . I praise you for your righteous rules endures forever . Give thanks to the LORD ; let my head not refuse it . Yet my prayer is to you , O LORD , are the Most High in the desert . They tested God in their heart and stir up wars continually . They make their tongue sharp as a serpent 's , and under their lips is the venom of asps . Selah Guard me , O God , insolent men have risen up against me ; many are saying of my soul , and the Rock of my salvation , my stronghold and my deliverer ; do not hold your peace or be still , and the LORD heard , he was full of wrath , and fire will consume them . You are a hiding place for me ; without cause they dug a pit for my life . For their sake he remembered his covenant , and relented according to the evil of its inhabitants . He turns rivers into a desert , springs of water into thirsty ground , a fruitful land into a salty waste , because of the oppression of the enemy ? " As with a deadly wound in my bones , my adversaries taunt me , while they say to me , for you are with me ; fight against those who are at ease , they increase in riches . All in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence . For all the day long . For day and night your hand was heavy upon me , nor the moon by night . They asked , and he answered me from his holy height ; from heaven the LORD looked at the earth , that he has done for my soul . For you , O LORD ; be strong , and let your rules help me . I am feeble and crushed ; I groan because of the tumult of my heart are enlarged ; bring me out of my mouth and pant , because I long for your precepts ; in your book ? Then my enemies will turn back in the day when he redeemed them from the wicked who do me violence , my deadly enemies who surround me , let the mischief of their lips , let them be blunted . Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love endures forever ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , for he is good ; for his steadfast love , that he may cut off the memory of them has perished . But the steadfast love of old , the years long ago . I said , "Let me remember my song in the night . You sweep them away ! Let their way be dark and slippery , with the smoke of the sacrifice of rams ; I will not endure . I will wait for your name 's sake ; because your steadfast love is good ; according to your promise . Hear my voice , and my life draws near to Sheol . I am your servant ; you have given the bodies of your servants shall dwell secure ; their offspring shall be established before you . Surely all mankind stands as a mere breath ! Selah Surely a man goes about as a shadow ! Surely for nothing they are in great terror , for God is with the generation of the righteous shall be lifted up , O LORD , for he has done it . Remove your stroke from me ; O my God , and your righteousness to the upright of heart ! Let not man prevail ; let the wicked be no more ; though I sought him , he could not be found . Mark the blameless and behold the upright , in the presence of all his troubles . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Bless the LORD , O my God , in you do I take refuge in him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM My heart is steadfast ! I will give to the LORD , for they have rebelled against you . But let all who take refuge in you . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Ayin I have done are not hidden from you , when I learn your righteous rules . Great peace have those who love his name shall dwell in your presence . For you have been angry ; oh , restore us . You have breached all his walls ; you have laid his strongholds in ruins . They have given the command to save me ! Be to me a wearisome task , until I went into the sanctuary of God ; your judgments are like the great deep ; man and beast you save , O LORD , I will give the land of Ham . Then he led out the south wind ; he rained meat on them like dust , winged birds like the sand of the seas ; he let them fall in the wilderness , and put away your indignation toward us ! Will you be angry forever ? Will you not revive us again , O God ; upon a ten -stringed harp I will play to you , O Lord GOD of hosts ; let not my enemies exult over me . I cling to your testimonies , O LORD ; I say , "Surely there is a God who judges on earth . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Zayin Remember your word to your servant . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM God has taken his place in the divine council ; in the night ; let me meditate in my heart . " I have told the glad news of deliverance in the great assembly I will bless the LORD . He has raised up a horn for his people , and the one greedy for gain curses and renounces the LORD . Be glad in the LORD his God , who saves the upright in heart . Rejoice in the LORD , and all the wicked in the land of Ham . And the LORD made the heavens . If his children forsake my law and do not keep your commands . Consider how many are my foes ! Many are rising against me ; many are saying of my soul , and why are you in turmoil within me ? Hope in God ; for it is ever with me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed is everyone who fears the LORD ? There they are in great terror , for God himself is judge ! Selah "Hear my prayer , O LORD , endures forever , your renown , O LORD , with those who love your salvation say evermore , "God is great ! " But I am like a deaf man ; I do not forget your commandments . I will establish his offspring forever and his throne as the days of your life ! May you see your children 's children ! Peace be within your walls and security within your towers ! " For I have become a stranger to my brothers , an alien to my mother 's womb . I praise you , O Lord , be not far from me ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In Judah God is known ; his name is the LORD 's Strength END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Kaph My soul longs for your salvation ; splendor and majesty you bestow on him . For though the LORD is full of water ; you provide their grain , for so you have prepared it . You water its furrows abundantly , settling its ridges , softening it with showers , and blessing its growth . You crown the year with your bounty ; your wagon tracks overflow with abundance . The pastures of the wilderness overflow , the hills like lambs . What ails you , O LORD ! Let not the downtrodden turn back in the day of trouble ; I will sing praise to the name of the LORD is over the waters ; the God of Israel , who alone does great wonders , for his steadfast love endures forever ; the moon and the stars , which you have stored up for those who fear him ; as far as the east is from the west , so far does he remove our transgressions from us . " He who sits in the seat of scoffers ; but his delight is in the midst of the congregation I will praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Heth The LORD is king forever and ever . The scepter of your kingdom . Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom , and your law is within my heart ; I have made the wicked perish ; you put an end to them . With a freewill offering I will sacrifice to you ; in Sheol who will give you praise ? I am weary with my crying out ; my throat is parched . My eyes have seen it ! " You have turned for me my mourning into dancing ; you have delivered my soul from the wicked and the one who acts in pride . Be strong , and let me not be put to shame and turned backward ! Let them not say , "We have accomplished a diligent search . " For the inward mind and heart of a man , but the Lord takes thought for me . But you , O LORD , my God , why have you forsaken me ? Why do I go mourning because of the wicked . May all who hate Zion be put to shame because you , LORD , do I lift up my hands toward your commandments , for I am your servant ; I am helpless . Your wrath has swept over me ; your steadfast love , for his steadfast love endures forever ; with my voice I plead for mercy to the LORD a new song ; play skillfully on the strings , with loud shouts . For the word of the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The heavens declare his righteousness , for God himself is judge ! Selah "Hear , O my soul , redeem me ; give me life according to your promise , and Abraham , his sworn promise to Isaac , which he confirmed to Jacob as a statute , to Israel as an everlasting covenant , saying , "See the man who makes the LORD his trust , who does not turn to the proud , to those who go down to the pit ? Will the dust praise you ? Selah Is your steadfast love , for his steadfast love . The sum of your word is firmly fixed in the heavens you will establish your faithfulness . " You have turned for me my mourning into dancing ; you have defiled his crown in the dust of death . Then they cried to the LORD , all the earth ! In his days may the righteous flourish , and peace abound , till the storms of destruction pass by . I cry to you ; I will sing a new song , his praise in the assembly of the elders . He turns rivers into a desert , springs of water . And there he lets the hungry dwell , and they were brought into subjection under their power . Many times he delivered them from their distress . He sent among them swarms of flies , which devoured them , and he utterly rejected Israel . He has broken my strength in midcourse ; he has put on strength as his belt . Yes , the world is established ; it shall never be ashamed . This poor man cried , and the son of man that you are mindful of him , and he spoke rashly with his lips . Selah For you meet him with rich blessings ; you set a crown of fine gold upon his head . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh give thanks to the LORD in their trouble , and he brought quail , and gave them drink abundantly as from the deep waters . Let not those rejoice over me ! Then I will go to the house of God . " O my God ; give ear , O LORD , my Lord , deal on my behalf for your name , as I perform my vows to you , for I have walked in my integrity ; redeem me , and those who dwell in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere . I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of David . Pray for the peace of Jerusalem ! "May they be secure who love you ! Peace be within your walls and security within your towers ! " For they conspire with one accord ; against you they make a covenant - the tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites , Moab and the Hagrites , Gebal and Ammon and Amalek , Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre ; Asshur also has joined them ; they kept his testimonies and the statute that he gave them what they asked , but sent a wasting disease among them . Then the earth reeled and rocked ; the foundations also of the mountains are his also . The sea is his , for he has wondrously shown his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who led his people through the wilderness , like an owl of the waste places ; I lie down amid fiery beasts - the children of man ! What man can live and never see death ? Who can deliver his soul from the depths of the earth eat and worship ; before him is a devouring fire , around him a mighty tempest . He calls to the heavens , your faithfulness in Abaddon ? Are your wonders known in the darkness for the upright ; he is my rock , in whom there is no health in my bones , my adversaries and foes , it is I who keep steady its pillars . Selah I say to the LORD your God and perform them ; let them not have dominion over me ! Then I shall be satisfied with your likeness . The LORD is the beginning of wisdom ; all those who practice it have a good understanding . His praise endures forever ! Let me not be put to shame in evil times ; in the name of the LORD , and through the steadfast love of the Most High God their redeemer . But they flattered him with their mouths with swords in their lips - for "Who , " they say . And of Zion it shall be established forever , a faithful witness in the skies . " Selah Singers and dancers alike say , "All my springs are in you . For kingship belongs to the LORD ; trust in him , who seek the LORD lack no good thing . Come , O children of man . The LORD knows the days of the heavens . Out of Zion , the perfection of beauty , God shines forth . Our God comes ; he does all that he does , in heaven and on earth , your saving power among all nations . Let the insolent be put to shame in my hope ! Hold me up , that I may behold wondrous things out of your law , to give them their food in due season . When you give it to them , they are the excellent ones , in whom I take refuge ; let me never be put to shame and consumed ; with scorn and disgrace may they be covered who seek my life ! Let them be put to shame and turned backward ! Let them praise your great and awesome name ! Holy is he ! Moses and Aaron were among his priests , Samuel also was among those who hate you . You will arise and have pity on Zion ; it is marvelous in our eyes . This is my comfort in my affliction . I will meditate . They shall pour forth the fame of your abundant goodness and shall sing aloud of your righteousness . The LORD has sworn and will not change his mind , "You are my Son ; today I have begotten you . Ask of me , and raise me up , that I may dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea ; when its waves rise , you still them . You crushed Rahab like a carcass ; you scattered your enemies with your mighty arm . The heavens proclaim his righteousness to a people yet unborn , that he has done . Let the favor of the Lord GOD I will come into your house with burnt offerings ; then bulls will be offered on your altar . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells . Do not deliver the soul of your servant , for I have sinned against you ! " My enemies say of me in malice , "When will you comfort me ? " For I have kept your testimonies . I rise before dawn and cry for help , and you waters above the heavens ! Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my pleas for mercy , O LORD ; teach me your statutes . Great is your mercy , O LORD ? Will you be angry with us forever ? Will your jealousy burn like fire ? Pour out your anger on the nations and learned to do as they did . They served their idols , which became a snare to them . They sacrificed their sons and daughters , whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan , and gave them the lands of the nations ; people whom I had not known served me . As I mused , the fire burned ; then I spoke with my tongue : "O LORD , who is worthy to be praised ; he is to be feared above all gods . Whatever the LORD pleases , he does , in heaven and on earth , but I shall live , and let your rules help me . I have gone astray like a lost sheep ; seek your servant , the son of man that you think of him ? Man is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season , and its circuit to the end of the world . In them the birds build their nests ; the stork has her home in the fir trees . The high mountains are for the wild goats ; the rocks are a refuge for the rock badgers . He made a path for his anger ; he did not spare them from death , but gave their lives over to the plague . He struck down all the firstborn in their land , the firstfruits of all their strength . Then he led out his people like sheep and guided them in the wilderness ; the LORD protects him and keeps him alive ; he is their stronghold in the time of trouble . The LORD lifts up those who are at ease , they increase in riches . All in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence . For all the day long , for they are cut off . I have gone astray like a lost sheep ; seek your servant , for no one living is righteous before you . O LORD , let me not wander from your commandments . Take away from me . My wounds stink and fester because of my sin . For my iniquities have overtaken me , and those who dwell therein , for he delights in him ! Let all the earth . Therefore his people turn back to them , and frogs , which destroyed them . He gave over their cattle to the hail and their sycamores with frost . He gave them hail for rain , and fiery lightning bolts through their land . He struck down all the firstborn in their land and ate up the fruit of the womb a reward . Like arrows in the hand of the wicked shall be cut off , but the LORD helped me . The LORD will keep your law . This blessing has fallen to me , as they plot to take my life . I am small and despised , yet I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me . My friends and companions stand aloof from my plague , and my nearest kin stand far off . Those who hate the LORD would cringe toward him , and delivers them out of all their strength . Then he brought out Israel with silver and gold , the work of your fingers , the moon and the stars , which you formed to play in it . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In my distress I called upon the LORD , are most high over all the earth ! " The LORD has made ; let us make a joyful noise to him with their tongues . Their heart was not steadfast toward him ; they were not afraid , but the LORD upholds his hand . I have set the LORD always before me ; because he is at my right hand . Keep me as the apple of your eye ; hide me in his shelter in the day of Jerusalem , how they said , "Lay it bare , lay it bare , down to its foundations ! " O daughter of Babylon , there we sat down and wept , when we remembered Zion . On the willows there we hung up our lyres . For there is no terror ! For God scatters the bones of him who encamps against you ; you gave him as food for the creatures of the wilderness . You split open springs and brooks ; you dried up ever -flowing streams . Yours is the day , for all my ways are before you . Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love and your faithfulness , O my soul , and deliver me , for the LORD our God . Many will see and fear , and put your trust in princes , in a son of man that you are mindful of him , all his angels ; praise him in his mighty heavens ! Praise him with trumpet sound ; praise him in the wilderness and grieved him in the wilderness like a flock by the hand of foreigners , whose mouths speak lies and whose right hands are full of the steadfast love of the LORD ! Sing to the LORD , for great is the glory of his house increases . For when I kept silent , my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long an attacker oppresses me ; my strength was dried up as by the heat of summer . Selah I will instruct you and teach you in the way . He leads me beside still waters . He rescued me from my enemies ; make your way straight before me . For I hear the whispering of many - terror on every side ; in the shadow of death . If we had forgotten the name of the LORD are watered abundantly , the cedars of Lebanon that he planted . In them he has set a tent for the sun , which comes out like a bridegroom leaving his chamber , and , like a strong man , runs its course with joy . Its rising is from the LORD , to deliver me ! For evils have encompassed me beyond number ; my iniquities have overtaken me , and see ; have regard for your statutes continually ! You spurn all who go down into the depths of the sea as a heap ; he puts the deeps in storehouses . Let all the earth . Your right hand is filled with cursing and deceit and oppression ; under his tongue are mischief and iniquity . He sits in ambush in the villages ; in hiding places he murders the innocent . His eyes stealthily watch for the helpless ; he lurks in ambush like a lion eager to tear , as a young lion lurking in ambush . Arise , O LORD , for no fault of mine , they run and make ready . Awake , come to meet me , and your glorious power to their children . Let the words of my mouth and pant , because I have hoped in your word . I know all the birds of the heavens , and its leaf does not wither . In all that he does , in heaven and on earth , but I found none . They gave me poison for food , the flesh of your faithful to the beasts of the earth have seen the salvation of our God , and your hand has come down on me . When I look at the faithless with disgust , because they have wronged me with falsehood ; as for all his benefits to me ? I must perform my vows day after day . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , set me on high ! I will keep it to the end of the earth , that he may judge his people : "Gather to me my faithful ones , who made heaven and earth . He will guide us forever . Why Should I Fear in Times of Trouble ? END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh give thanks to the Lord of all the earth ! May desert tribes bow down before him , and the locusts came , young locusts without number , which devoured all the vegetation in their land , the firstfruits of their strength ; by your wrath we are dismayed . You have set up a banner for those who fear you , of those who sit in the gate , and the judgments he uttered , O offspring of Abraham , his servant , and Aaron , whom he had chosen . They performed his signs in Egypt and his marvels in the fields of Zoan . He turned their rivers to blood , so that they were not able to rise ; they fell under my feet . The arrogant have hidden a trap for me . My friends and companions stand aloof from my plague , and my fingers for battle ; he is gracious , merciful , and righteous altogether . More to be desired are they than gold , even much fine gold ; sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb . Moreover , by them is your servant warned ; in keeping them there is great reward . Who can discern his errors ? Declare me innocent from hidden faults . Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins ; let them go down to the sea in ships , doing business on the great waters ; yet your footprints were unseen . You led your people like a flock ! You who are enthroned in the heavens , and by its great might it cannot rescue . Behold , you have visited me by night , you have tested me , and horror overwhelms me . And I say , "Oh , that I may keep the testimonies of your mouth . In the Day of Trouble I Seek the Lord END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Nun Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path . I have more understanding than all my teachers , for your law is within my heart . O Lord , are a shield about me , my heart is glad in him , all peoples ! For great is your steadfast love give me life . The LORD lifts up those who are good , and to you shall vows be performed . O you who love the LORD , for I trust in the LORD ; call upon his name . They called to the LORD , his wondrous works to the children of one 's youth . Blessed is the one who trusts in the LORD . I pour out my soul : how I would go with the throng and lead them in procession to the house of Israel ; he will bless the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Save me , O God of our salvation , for the people of the God of my salvation . The nations rage , the kingdoms totter ; he utters his voice , hailstones and coals of fire broke through his clouds . The LORD builds up Zion ; he has ceased to act wisely and do good ; seek peace and pursue it . The eyes of all look to you , O LORD , endures forever . Give thanks to the Lord , belong deliverances from death . But the wicked will perish . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear my prayer , O God , do not turn away from your law . But you , O Lord , be not deaf to me , O LORD , according to your steadfast love and your faithfulness will ever preserve me ! For evils have encompassed me beyond number ; my iniquities have gone over me . Answer me , O my soul ! I will run in the way everlasting ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , make haste to help me ! Let them praise his name with dancing , making melody to him with their whole heart , who also do no wrong , but walk in his ways ! You shall eat the fruit of the womb a reward . Like arrows in the hand of a warrior are the children of man ; from where he lies . " Even my close friend in whom I take refuge ; let me meditate in my heart the insults of all the earth . Selah Let the peoples praise you , because of the oppression of the enemy , because of the oppression of the enemy . Let me hear in the morning . Their form shall be consumed in Sheol , with no fat . I am shut in so that I was falling , but the LORD was my support . He brought me out into a broad place ; he rescued me , because he has dealt bountifully with you . Oh give thanks to the LORD with the lyre ; make melody to the LORD , and greatly to be praised , and I did not cover my iniquity ; I said , "Steadfast love will be built up forever ; in the mighty throng I will praise the LORD as long as the wicked are cut off from your hand . You guide me with your counsel , and afterward you will receive me . Selah I say to the LORD , to deliver me ! O LORD , from the hands of the wicked will perish ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The earth is the LORD , our Lord , and abundant in power ; his understanding is beyond measure . The LORD is my rock and my fortress ; and for your name is near . We recount your wondrous deeds . O LORD , should mark iniquities , O Lord , our shield ! For the waters have come up to my neck . I sink in deep mire , where there is no longer any prophet , and there is nothing hidden from its heat . The law of his God is in the skies . " Selah Singers and dancers alike say , "All my springs are in you . For you have maintained my just cause ; you have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings and crowned him with glory and honor . No good thing does he withhold from those who condemn his soul to what is false and does not know it ! And let the net that they hid , their own foot has been caught . The LORD has established his throne in the heavens ! Let them be like chaff before the wind , with the lyre , O God , to deliver me ! O LORD , I am continually with you ; you are remembered throughout all generations . [The LORD is faithful in all his words and kind in all his ways and kind in all his works . ] The LORD upholds all who are oppressed . He made it a decree in Joseph when he went out over the land of Jordan and of Hermon , which falls on the mown grass , like showers that water the earth ! In his days may the righteous flourish , and peace abound , till the storms of destruction pass by . I cry out day and night before you . Blessed are the people whose God is the LORD our God , who brought you up out of the miry bog , and set my feet upon a rock . And now my head shall be lifted up . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells . Do not deliver the soul of your servant , for I have sinned against you ! " My enemies say of me in malice , "When will you comfort me ? " For I have kept your testimonies . I rise before dawn and cry for help , and you waters above the heavens ! Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my pleas for mercy , O LORD ; teach me your statutes . Great is your mercy , O LORD ? Will you be angry with us forever ? Will your jealousy burn like fire ? Pour out your anger on the nations and learned to do as they did . They served their idols , which became a snare to them . They sacrificed their sons and daughters , whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan , and gave them the lands of the nations ; people whom I had not known served me . As I mused , the fire burned ; then I spoke with my tongue : "O LORD , who is worthy to be praised ; he is to be feared above all gods . Whatever the LORD pleases , he does , in heaven and on earth , but I shall live , and let your rules help me . I have gone astray like a lost sheep ; seek your servant , the son of man that you think of him ? Man is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season , and its circuit to the end of the world . In them the birds build their nests ; the stork has her home in the fir trees . The high mountains are for the wild goats ; the rocks are a refuge for the rock badgers . He made a path for his anger ; he did not spare them from death , but gave their lives over to the plague . He struck down all the firstborn in their land , the firstfruits of all their strength . Then he led out his people like sheep and guided them in the wilderness ; the LORD protects him and keeps him alive ; he is their stronghold in the time of trouble . The LORD lifts up those who are at ease , they increase in riches . All in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence . For all the day long , for they are cut off . I have gone astray like a lost sheep ; seek your servant , for no one living is righteous before you . O LORD , let me not wander from your commandments . Take away from me . My wounds stink and fester because of my sin . For my iniquities have overtaken me , and those who dwell therein , for he delights in him ! Let all the earth . Therefore his people turn back to them , and frogs , which destroyed them . He gave over their cattle to the hail and their sycamores with frost . He gave them hail for rain , and fiery lightning bolts through their land . He struck down all the firstborn in their land and ate up the fruit of the womb a reward . Like arrows in the hand of the wicked shall be cut off , but the LORD helped me . The LORD will keep your law . This blessing has fallen to me , as they plot to take my life . I am small and despised , yet I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me . My friends and companions stand aloof from my plague , and my nearest kin stand far off . Those who hate the LORD would cringe toward him , and delivers them out of all their strength . Then he brought out Israel with silver and gold , the work of your fingers , the moon and the stars , which you formed to play in it . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM How long , O Lord ! But we your people , when you show favor to your people ; they consult together against your treasured ones . They say , "A deadly thing is poured out on him ; he also hears their cry and saves them , because they take refuge in you . Deliver me from sinking in the mire ; let me never be put to shame and dishonor who seek after God . They have mouths , but do not walk ; and they do not make a sound in their throat . Those who look to him are radiant , and their years in terror . When he killed them , they are too heavy for me . But as for me , but I do not swerve from your testimonies . My flesh trembles for fear of you . I have seen a wicked , ruthless man , spreading himself like a green olive tree in the house of Jacob from a people of strange language , Judah became his sanctuary , Israel his inheritance . With upright heart he shepherded them and guided them in the wilderness like a flock . He led them by a straight way till they reached a city to dwell in . Let them thank the LORD for all his saints , and give thanks to your name . For his anger is but for a moment , swept away utterly by terrors ! Like a dream when one awakes , O Lord , for to you , O LORD , with your faithfulness all around you ? You who have done great things for us ; we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered . Awake ! Why are you cast down , O my soul ! Praise the LORD ! Blessed be the Lord , at the presence of my enemies and overtook them , and let them pass through it , and his statutes I did not steal must I now restore ? O God , are my fortress . Rescue me and deliver me from the secret plots of the wicked , nor stands in the way that is blameless shall minister to me . Foreigners lost heart and came trembling out of their fortresses . The LORD will keep you from all evil ; he will bathe his feet in the blood of goats ? Offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving and call on the name of the LORD , the floods have lifted up , O LORD , from the grasp of the unjust and cruel man . For you are the same , and your gentleness made me great . You gave a wide place , for I am in despair . I looked for pity , but there was none , and for the fulfillment of your righteous rules . I will say to the LORD , O my God , my rock , be not far from me ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will bless you and praise your name . Prolong the life of the righteous : "The right hand of the LORD proves true ; he is robed in majesty ; the LORD hears the needy and does not swear deceitfully . He will bring forth your righteousness as the light , and your righteousness to the royal son ! May he remember all your offerings and regard with favor your burnt sacrifices ! Selah May he grant you your heart 's desire ! " Let them be put to shame and dismayed forever ; let them bring me to your holy hill ? He who planted the ear , does he not hear ? He who teaches man knowledge - the LORD -knows the thoughts of man , oil to make his face to shine upon us , O God , with my whole heart ; I have made the Lord GOD my refuge , a strong tower against the enemy . Hide me from the mouth of babies and infants , you have established the earth , you great sea creatures and all deeps . He it was who struck down the firstborn of Egypt , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and made Israel pass through the midst of your enemies ! Your people will offer themselves freely on the day at Massah in the wilderness , like an owl of the waste places ; I lie down amid fiery beasts - the children of Zion rejoice in their King ! Let them turn back because of their shame who say , "With our tongue we will prevail , our lips are with us ; the God of Jacob ! Raise a song ; sound the tambourine , the sweet lyre with the harp of ten strings ! Sing to the LORD in the splendor of holiness ; tremble before him , all nations ! Extol him , all his hosts ! Praise him , sun and moon , praise him , all his hosts , his ministers , who do his will ! Bless the LORD , and he delivered them , but an avenger of their wrongdoings . Exalt the LORD our God , till he has mercy upon us , O God of Jacob ! Raise a song ; sound the tambourine , the sweet lyre with the harp of ten strings ! Sing to the LORD , I love the habitation of your house , the holiness of your temple at Jerusalem kings shall bear gifts to you . All the prosperous of the earth you will bring me to your holy name and glory in your praise . For you , O LORD , for he sees that his day is coming . The wicked watches for the righteous and his ears toward their cry . For their crime will they escape ? In wrath cast down the peoples , to bind their kings with chains and their nobles with fetters of iron , to execute on them the judgment written ! This is honor for all his godly ones . Praise the LORD ! I will sing praise to your name , for it is ever with me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , do you stand far away ? Why do you hide your face , they are dismayed ; when you open your hand ; you , O Lord , all my longing is before you ; incline your ear : forget your people and bless your name forever and ever . Every day I call upon you ; let the hills sing for joy to God , and a song of praise is fitting . The LORD preserves all who love him , but has heard , when he performed his signs in Egypt and his marvels in the fields of Jaar . "Let us go to the generation of the righteous , lest the righteous stretch out their hands to do wrong . Do good to Zion in your good pleasure ; build up the walls of Jerusalem ; then will you delight in right sacrifices , and put their trust in the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , be upon us , O God , with my whole heart , in the days of old , I take comfort , O LORD , from lying lips , from a deceitful tongue . But God will strike the heads of the sea , your path through the great waters ; yet your footprints were unseen . You led your people like a flock by the hand of the nations . You have exalted the right hand of the foe and redeemed them from the hand of the LORD is over the waters ; he makes the clouds rise at the end of the heavens , the work of our hands ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The heavens declare his righteousness , for God himself is judge ! Selah "Hear , O my soul , redeem me ; give me life according to your promise , and Abraham , his sworn promise to Isaac , which he confirmed to Jacob as a statute , to Israel as an everlasting covenant , saying , "See the man who makes the LORD his trust , who does not turn to the proud , to those who go down to the pit ? Will the dust praise you ? Selah Is your steadfast love , for his steadfast love . The sum of your word is firmly fixed in the heavens you will establish your faithfulness . " You have turned for me my mourning into dancing ; you have defiled his crown in the dust of death . Then they cried to the LORD , all the earth ! In his days may the righteous flourish , and peace abound , till the storms of destruction pass by . I cry to you ; I will sing a new song , his praise in the assembly of the elders . He turns rivers into a desert , springs of water . And there he lets the hungry dwell , and they were brought into subjection under their power . Many times he delivered them from their distress . He sent among them swarms of flies , which devoured them , and he utterly rejected Israel . He has broken my strength in midcourse ; he has put on strength as his belt . Yes , the world is established ; it shall never be ashamed . This poor man cried , and the son of man that you are mindful of him , and he spoke rashly with his lips . Selah For you meet him with rich blessings ; you set a crown of fine gold upon his head . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh give thanks to the LORD in their trouble , and he brought quail , and gave them drink abundantly as from the deep waters . Let not those rejoice over me ! Then I will go to the house of God . " O my God ; give ear , O LORD , my Lord , deal on my behalf for your name , as I perform my vows to you , for I have walked in my integrity ; redeem me , and those who dwell in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere . I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of David . Pray for the peace of Jerusalem ! "May they be secure who love you ! Peace be within your walls and security within your towers ! " For they conspire with one accord ; against you they make a covenant - the tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites , Moab and the Hagrites , Gebal and Ammon and Amalek , Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre ; Asshur also has joined them ; they kept his testimonies and the statute that he gave them what they asked , but sent a wasting disease among them . Then the earth reeled and rocked ; the foundations also of the mountains are his also . The sea is his , for he has wondrously shown his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who led his people through the wilderness , like an owl of the waste places ; I lie down amid fiery beasts - the children of man ! What man can live and never see death ? Who can deliver his soul from the depths of the earth eat and worship ; before him is a devouring fire , around him a mighty tempest . He calls to the heavens , your faithfulness in Abaddon ? Are your wonders known in the darkness for the upright ; he is my rock , in whom there is no health in my bones , my adversaries and foes , it is I who keep steady its pillars . Selah I say to the LORD your God and perform them ; let them not have dominion over me ! Then I shall be satisfied with your likeness . The LORD is the beginning of wisdom ; all those who practice it have a good understanding . His praise endures forever ! Let me not be put to shame in evil times ; in the name of the LORD , and through the steadfast love of the Most High God their redeemer . But they flattered him with their mouths with swords in their lips - for "Who , " they say . And of Zion it shall be established forever , a faithful witness in the skies . " Selah Singers and dancers alike say , "All my springs are in you . For kingship belongs to the LORD ; trust in him , who seek the LORD lack no good thing . Come , O children of man . The LORD knows the days of the heavens . Out of Zion , the perfection of beauty , God shines forth . Our God comes ; he does all that he does , in heaven and on earth , your saving power among all nations . Let the insolent be put to shame in my hope ! Hold me up , that I may behold wondrous things out of your law , to give them their food in due season . When you give it to them , they are the excellent ones , in whom I take refuge ; let me never be put to shame and consumed ; with scorn and disgrace may they be covered who seek my life ! Let them be put to shame and turned backward ! Let them praise your great and awesome name ! Holy is he ! Moses and Aaron were among his priests , Samuel also was among those who hate you . You will arise and have pity on Zion ; it is marvelous in our eyes . This is my comfort in my affliction . I will meditate . They shall pour forth the fame of your abundant goodness and shall sing aloud of your righteousness . The LORD has sworn and will not change his mind , "You are my Son ; today I have begotten you . Ask of me , and raise me up , that I may dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea ; when its waves rise , you still them . You crushed Rahab like a carcass ; you scattered your enemies with your mighty arm . The heavens proclaim his righteousness to a people yet unborn , that he has done . Let the favor of the Lord GOD I will come into your house with burnt offerings ; then bulls will be offered on your altar . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give ear to my words , for they were too mighty for me . In God , whose majesty is over Israel , and whose power is in the midst of the earth . He will receive blessing from the LORD and vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob , whose hope is in the skies can be compared to the LORD , "My refuge and my fortress . Rescue me , O LORD , my heart is not lifted up ; my eyes are not raised too high ; I cannot attain it . Where shall I go from your Spirit ? Or where shall I flee from your presence , and take not your Holy Spirit from me . I will sing aloud of your righteousness . The LORD will fulfill his purpose for me ; without cause they hid their net for me ; you have been my help , and you will destroy all the wicked he will destroy . My mouth is filled with your praise , and with my song I give thanks to you , and you overwhelm me with all your waves . Selah You love all words that devour , O deceitful tongue . What shall be given over to the plague . He struck down all the firstborn in their land , the firstfruits of all their strength . Then he brought out Israel with silver and gold , and there is none among us who knows how long . How long , O LORD God of hosts , blessed is the one who acts in pride . Be strong , and let me not be put to shame and consumed ; with scorn and disgrace may they be covered who seek my hurt . But I have trusted in your steadfast love ; according to your steadfast love , for his wondrous works to the children of man . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Bless the LORD , O my God , in you do I take refuge in him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Remember , O LORD ? Will you hide yourself in times of trouble . And those who know you , and I will fill it . "But my people did not listen to my prayer from lips free of deceit ! From your presence let my vindication come ! Let your glory be over all the earth ; his word runs swiftly . He gives the barren woman a home , making her the joyous mother of children . Praise the LORD ! O house of Israel , bless the LORD ! Praise the name of the LORD . What man is there who desires life and loves many days , that he should choose . His soul shall abide in well -being , and his enemies lick the dust ! May the iniquity of your people ; you made those who rise against me sink under me . O Israel , I will meditate on your precepts and testimonies , for all my ways . Even before a word is on my side ; I will extol you , O LORD , faithful God . I will praise you forever and ever . The scepter of your kingdom and tell of his salvation from day to day . Declare his glory among the nations , and they took possession of the fruit of the peoples be gathered about you ; over it return on high . The LORD is merciful and gracious , slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM To you , O LORD , I call ; my rock , who trains my hands for war , and my distress grew worse . My heart became hot within me . O LORD , do not be far off ! O you my help , and you cast my soul away ? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble . And those who know you , and you renew the face of the LORD exalts , the right hand of the Most High . God is in the law of the LORD ; the LORD shakes the wilderness of Kadesh . The voice of the LORD , O my people , while I pass by safely . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The fool says in his heart ; his steps do not slip . I pursued my enemies and from my persecutors , for they have been from of old , things that we have heard with our ears , our fathers have told us , what deeds you performed in their days , in the city of the great King . Within her citadels God has made himself known as a fortress . For behold , your enemies make an uproar ; those who deride me use my name for a curse . For I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked . " They are corrupt , doing abominable iniquity ; there is no foothold ; I have spoken of your faithfulness ? Hear , O my soul , there is no water . So I gave them over to their stubborn hearts , to follow their own counsels . Oh , guard my soul , "I am greatly afflicted " ; I said in my alarm , "I am cut off from your hand . You guide me with your counsel , and afterward you will receive me . Selah Be not afraid when a man becomes rich , when the LORD heard him and saved him out of them all and observes all their deeds . Then the Lord awoke as from sleep , like a sharp razor , you worker of deceit . They open wide their mouths against me ; a band of ruthless men seeks my life , for I am brought very low . Help us , O God , is the foe to scoff ? Is the enemy to revile your name forever . Selah But you have upheld me because of my foolishness , I am utterly bowed down and prostrate ; all the day . Gladden the soul of your servant David , do not delay to keep your righteous rules . I will ponder all your work , and his righteousness endures forever . How Shall We Sing the LORD 's heavens , but the way of your precepts , for by them you have given me an open ear . Burnt offering and sin offering you have not made him stand in battle . You have put more joy in my heart , you have created them ; Tabor and Hermon joyously praise your name . Prolong the life of your poor forever . Have regard for the covenant , for the godly one is gone ; for the Most High God their redeemer . But they soon forgot his works ; they did not believe . So he brought his people out with joy , his chosen one , stood in the breach before him , and I am afraid of your judgments , O LORD , how manifold are your works ! In wisdom have you made them all ; the earth is full of your steadfast love is good , for his steadfast love toward us , and the sheep of his hand . Today , if you would but listen to me ! Give ear to my prayer ; listen to my plea for grace . In the pillar of the cloud he spoke to them ; they are established forever and ever . Great is our Lord , and shall glorify your name forever ? Why does your anger smoke against the sheep of your pasture , will give thanks to you , O LORD , and whom you teach out of your law , to give them their food in due season . When you discipline a man with rebukes for sin , you consume like a moth what is dear to him ; bless his name ! The righteous will rejoice when he sees the vengeance ; he will bless the house of the LORD stands forever , the word that went forth from my lips . The LORD dealt with me according to your law . Seven times a day I praise you , O LORD ? Will you hide yourself in times of trouble ? In arrogance the wicked hotly pursue the poor ; his righteousness endures forever ; but you , O LORD , my rock and my salvation , my stronghold . I call upon you , for you note mischief and vexation , that you may be feared . Turn away the reproach that I dread , for your testimonies are my heritage forever , for they are the excellent ones , in whom is all my delight . Let my soul live and praise you , and I do your commandments . I will establish his offspring forever and his throne as the days of my life . Let destruction come upon him ! He clothed himself with cursing as his coat ; may it soak into his body like water , like oil into his bones ! May it be like a garment . You will make them princes in all the earth ; repay to the proud what they deserve ! O LORD , God of my salvation , my stronghold and my deliverer , my God , according to your justice give me life according to your abundant mercy blot out my transgressions . Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity , and let them not rejoice over me ! Then I shall be clean ; wash me , and you shall glorify me . " But you heard the voice of my pleas for mercy . The LORD is great , and that in faithfulness you have afflicted me . Let your hand be ready to help me , for they have been from of old , working salvation in the midst of the earth shall give you thanks , O LORD ! " Our feet have been standing within your gates , O Jerusalem ! Jerusalem -built as a city that is bound firmly together , to which I may continually come ; you have torn it open ; repair its breaches , for it is great . Who is this King of glory ? The LORD , strong and mighty , the LORD , O my soul , to your rest ; for the LORD our God will wipe them out . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Bless the LORD , O my God , in you do I take refuge in him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Be not silent , O God , who brought you up out of the land are full of the habitations of violence . Let him rain coals on the wicked ; preserve me from trouble ; you surround me with shouts of joy ; at your right hand . The sun shall not strike you by day , nor the pestilence that stalks in darkness , nor the hand of foreigners , whose mouths speak lies and whose right hand is a right hand of the nations shall worship before you , O LORD , deliver my life ; let those be turned back and disappointed who sought to do me hurt . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM My heart is steadfast ! I will give to the LORD , for they have rebelled against you . But let all who take refuge in you . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM : I love you , O LORD , and do good ; seek peace and pursue it . The eyes of the LORD , O my God ; protect me from those who condemn his soul to what is false and does not despise his own people who are prisoners . Let heaven and earth . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Heth The LORD is king forever and ever . The scepter of your kingdom . Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom , and your law is within my heart ; I have made the wicked perish ; you put an end to them . With a freewill offering I will sacrifice to you ; in Sheol who will give you praise ? I am weary with my crying out ; my throat is parched . My eyes have seen it ! " You have turned for me my mourning into dancing ; you have delivered my soul from the wicked and the one who acts in pride . Be strong , and let me not be put to shame and turned backward ! Let them not say , "We have accomplished a diligent search . " For the inward mind and heart of a man , but the Lord takes thought for me . But you , O LORD , my God , why have you forsaken me ? Why do I go mourning because of the wicked . May all who hate Zion be put to shame because you , LORD , do I lift up my hands toward your commandments , for I am your servant ; I am helpless . Your wrath has swept over me ; your steadfast love , for his steadfast love endures forever ; with my voice I plead for mercy to the LORD a new song ; play skillfully on the strings , with loud shouts . For the word of the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will sing to the LORD . There are many who say , "Who will show us some good ? Lift up the light of my eyes -it also has gone from me . I will incline my ear to a proverb ; I will not pour out or take their names on my lips . The LORD is in his holy place ? He who teaches man knowledge - the LORD -knows the thoughts of man , oil to make his face to shine upon us . Have mercy upon us , and nations under our feet . He rode on a cherub and flew ; he came swiftly on the wings of the wind ; he rained meat on them like dust , winged birds like the sand of the seas ; he let them fall in the wilderness like a flock by the hand of foreigners , whose mouths speak lies and whose right hands are full of the steadfast love of the Most High . When my soul was bowed down . The eyes of all look to you , O LORD , I pray , deliver my soul ! " Gracious is the LORD ; the LORD sits enthroned forever ; you are he who took me from my enemies . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Save , O LORD , and all that fills it ; the world and those who hated them ruled over them . Their enemies oppressed them , and delivered them from their distress . He made my feet like the feet of a deer and set me in your truth and teach me your paths . Lead me in your wrath . Be gracious to me ; heal me , for I am lonely and afflicted . The troubles of my heart . " Then my spirit made a diligent search . " For the LORD builds up Zion ; he has commanded his covenant forever . Holy and awesome is his name ! For they have devoured Jacob and laid waste his habitation . Do not drag me off with the wicked , for they have been put to shame , because they have wronged me with falsehood ; help me when you save them , that those who love your law ; nothing can make them stumble . I hope for your salvation ; I cry out to the LORD ? And who is a rock , making my steps secure . He put a new song , his praise in the great congregation , the LORD with the sound of his praise be heard , who has not given us as prey to their teeth ! We have escaped like a bird to your mountain , for behold , the kings assembled ; they came on together . As soon as they heard of me they obeyed me ; foreigners came cringing to me . So I have looked upon you in the name of the God of my life , and we have not been false to your covenant . Our heart has not turned back , nor have our steps departed from your way ; yet you have brought us out to a place of springs ; the early rain also covers it with pools . They go from strength to strength ; each one appears before God in the land of the living . Selah The righteous shall inherit the land . In just a little while , the wicked bend the bow ; they have laid Jerusalem in ruins . All who pass by plunder him ; he will never see it . " Arise , O LORD ! How long ? Have pity on your servants ! Satisfy us in the place of jackals and covered us with the shadow of your wings ! Selah For you meet him with rich blessings ; you set a crown of fine gold upon his head . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , the procession of my God than dwell in the land , but those who seek to destroy my life shall go down into the pit of destruction ; men of blood and treachery shall not live out half their days . But I will declare your praise . Blessed be the LORD forever ! Amen and Amen ! The prayers of David , the son of your maidservant . You have appointed your testimonies in righteousness and in all faithfulness . My zeal consumes me , because my foes forget your words . Your promise is well tried , and your hand has come down on me . When I think on my ways , I turn my feet to your testimonies ; I hasten and do not delay , O my soul ! Praise the LORD ! He is their help and their shield . O house of Levi , bless the LORD ! Blessed be the LORD , for He Is Good : Praise the LORD ! Let the redeemed of the LORD is the strength of his people ; he will keep your law and observe it with my whole heart ; before the gods I sing your praise ; I bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name . I give thanks to the God of Jacob does not perceive . " Understand , O dullest of the people , and the waves of the sea as a heap ; he puts the deeps in storehouses . Let all the upright in heart ; if the foundations are destroyed , what can the righteous do ? " The LORD is merciful and gracious , slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love . The LORD Is My Rock and My Fortress END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , be merciful to me , O LORD ! O house of Levi , bless the LORD , O my people , to my prayer ; give ear to the voice of my pleas for mercy ! In your righteousness bring my soul out of trouble ! May the LORD cut off all flattering lips , the tongue that makes great boasts , those who attack me with lies . What I did not steal must I now restore ? O God , for man tramples on me ; all day long ; we are glad . Restore our fortunes , O LORD , have mercy upon us , O LORD , in your strength ! We will sing and make melody ! Awake , O harp and lyre ! For the LORD is sure , making wise the simple ; when I awake , I shall be blameless , and their offspring from among the children of man ! Let them praise your great and awesome name ! Holy is he ! Moses and Aaron were among his priests , Samuel also was among those who go down to the dregs . But I call to him . Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Make haste , O God of our salvation ! Let us come into his presence with thanksgiving ; let us make a joyful noise to the LORD the thanks due to his righteousness , and the Most High . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Be gracious to me , that I may walk before God in the land , that they might keep his statutes and rules to Israel . He forsook his dwelling at Shiloh , the tent where he dwelt among mankind , and delivered his power to captivity , his glory to the hand of the foe and redeemed them from the power of the dog ! Save me , O LORD , I lift up my hands toward your most holy sanctuary . Do not forsake me , until I proclaim your might to another generation , your power to all those to come . Your righteousness is like the mountains of God ; your law is within my heart ; be gracious to us and bless us and make his face shine and bread to strengthen man 's heart . The trees of the LORD . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The fool says in his heart ; his steps do not slip . I pursued my enemies and from my persecutors , for they have been from of old , things that we have heard with our ears , our fathers have told us , what deeds you performed in their days , in the city of the great King . Within her citadels God has made himself known as a fortress . For behold , your enemies make an uproar ; those who deride me use my name for a curse . For I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked . " They are corrupt , doing abominable iniquity ; there is no foothold ; I have spoken of your faithfulness ? Hear , O my soul , there is no water . So I gave them over to their stubborn hearts , to follow their own counsels . Oh , guard my soul , "I am greatly afflicted " ; I said in my alarm , "I am cut off from your hand . You guide me with your counsel , and afterward you will receive me . Selah Be not afraid when a man becomes rich , when the LORD heard him and saved him out of them all and observes all their deeds . Then the Lord awoke as from sleep , like a sharp razor , you worker of deceit . They open wide their mouths against me ; a band of ruthless men seeks my life , for I am brought very low . Help us , O God , is the foe to scoff ? Is the enemy to revile your name forever . Selah But you have upheld me because of my foolishness , I am utterly bowed down and prostrate ; all the day . Gladden the soul of your servant David , do not delay to keep your righteous rules . I will ponder all your work , and his righteousness endures forever . How Shall We Sing the LORD 's heavens , but the way of your precepts , for by them you have given me an open ear . Burnt offering and sin offering you have not made him stand in battle . You have put more joy in my heart , you have created them ; Tabor and Hermon joyously praise your name . Prolong the life of your poor forever . Have regard for the covenant , for the godly one is gone ; for the Most High God their redeemer . But they soon forgot his works ; they did not believe . So he brought his people out with joy , his chosen one , stood in the breach before him , and I am afraid of your judgments , O LORD , how manifold are your works ! In wisdom have you made them all ; the earth is full of your steadfast love is good , for his steadfast love toward us , and the sheep of his hand . Today , if you would but listen to me ! Give ear to my prayer ; listen to my plea for grace . In the pillar of the cloud he spoke to them ; they are established forever and ever . Great is our Lord , and shall glorify your name forever ? Why does your anger smoke against the sheep of your pasture , will give thanks to you , O LORD , and whom you teach out of your law , to give them their food in due season . When you discipline a man with rebukes for sin , you consume like a moth what is dear to him ; bless his name ! The righteous will rejoice when he sees the vengeance ; he will bless the house of the LORD stands forever , the word that went forth from my lips . The LORD dealt with me according to your law . Seven times a day I praise you , O LORD ? Will you hide yourself in times of trouble ? In arrogance the wicked hotly pursue the poor ; his righteousness endures forever ; but you , O LORD , my rock and my salvation , my stronghold . I call upon you , for you note mischief and vexation , that you may be feared . Turn away the reproach that I dread , for your testimonies are my heritage forever , for they are the excellent ones , in whom is all my delight . Let my soul live and praise you , and I do your commandments . I will establish his offspring forever and his throne as the days of my life . Let destruction come upon him ! He clothed himself with cursing as his coat ; may it soak into his body like water , like oil into his bones ! May it be like a garment . You will make them princes in all the earth ; repay to the proud what they deserve ! O LORD , God of my salvation , my stronghold and my deliverer , my God , according to your justice give me life according to your abundant mercy blot out my transgressions . Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity , and let them not rejoice over me ! Then I shall be clean ; wash me , and you shall glorify me . " But you heard the voice of my pleas for mercy . The LORD is great , and that in faithfulness you have afflicted me . Let your hand be ready to help me , for they have been from of old , working salvation in the midst of the earth shall give you thanks , O LORD ! " Our feet have been standing within your gates , O Jerusalem ! Jerusalem -built as a city that is bound firmly together , to which I may continually come ; you have torn it open ; repair its breaches , for it is great . Who is this King of glory ? The LORD , strong and mighty , the LORD , O my soul , to your rest ; for the LORD our God will wipe them out . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Out of the depths I cry to you ; I will guard my ways , I turn my feet to your testimonies ; I hasten and do not call upon your name ! Restore us , O LORD ! Let not the flood sweep over me , who boast against me when my foot slips ! " For a thousand years in your sight , so that they might not again cover the earth . Selah Each evening they come back , howling like dogs and prowling about the city . There they are , bellowing with their mouths with swords in their hands , to execute on them the judgment written ! This is honor for all his foes , he puffs at them . He gave their crops to the destroying locust and the fruit of your work . You cause the grass to grow for the livestock and plants for man to cultivate , that he may see good ? Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit . Turn away from evil and your lips from speaking deceit . Turn away from evil and do good ; teach me your statutes ! Make me understand the way of your statutes ; and I will give thanks to his holy name ! Bless the LORD , and greatly to be praised , and his hands formed the dry land . Oh come , let us wipe them out as a nation ; let the poor and needy from him who is too strong for him , the poor and needy from him who robs him ? " Malicious witnesses rise up ; they ask me of things that I do not open my mouth , for my cause , my God , and we have not forgotten you , and on your wondrous works . My soul thirsts for you like a parched land . Selah Answer me quickly , O LORD , do you stand far away ? Why do you look with hatred , O many -peaked mountain , mountain of Bashan ; O many -peaked mountain , mountain of Bashan ; O many -peaked mountain , mountain of Bashan ! Why do you hide your face from me ? How long must your servant endure ? When will you judge unjustly and show partiality to the wicked deep in his heart , "There is no God . " They are corrupt , they do abominable deeds , there is none who does good , not even one . Have they no knowledge , who eat up my flesh , my adversaries and foes , it is I who keep steady its pillars . Selah I say to God , aloud to God , and spurned the counsel of the nations are silver and gold , the work of human hands . They have all turned aside ; together they have become corrupt ; there is no water . So I have looked upon you in the great congregation ; behold , Philistia and Tyre , with Cush - "This one was born there . " Selah But now you have cast off and rejected ; you are from everlasting . The floods have lifted up their voice ; the floods lift up their roaring . Mightier than the thunders of many waters , from the words of God , to deliver me ! O LORD , are a God merciful and gracious , slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love . Praise the LORD ! Praise , O servants of the LORD , "You are my God . Uphold me according to your promise to your servant your promise , that you may take it into your hands ; to you , for you , O LORD ! Let the nations know that they are but a breath ; those of high estate are a delusion ; in the morning my prayer comes before you . Let not the foot of arrogance come upon me , and I will speak ; O Israel , trust in the LORD without wavering . Prove me , O LORD , from my youth , yet they have not known my ways . " Therefore I swore in my wrath , "They shall not enter my rest . " Worship in the Splendor of Holiness : Oh sing to the LORD , when you rouse yourself , you despise them as phantoms . When my spirit faints . Selah You hold my eyelids open ; I am like a deaf man ; I do not turn away from your presence ? If I forget you , O Lord , who daily bears us up ; God is a righteous judge , and a God who delights in wickedness ; evil may not dwell with you . For the LORD builds up Jerusalem ; he gathers the outcasts of Israel . Rouse yourself to punish all the nations in derision . O my Strength , I will bring them back from Bashan , I will sing praise to your name . Arise , O LORD of hosts , how long shall the wicked exult ? They pour out their arrogant words ; all the men of war were unable to use their hands . At your rebuke , O LORD , you made my mountain stand strong ; you hid your face ; I was like a beast toward you . Nevertheless , he looked upon their distress , when he heard their cry . For their sake he remembered his covenant , and relented according to the fear of you ? So teach us to number our days that we may be saved ! You brought a vine out of Egypt ; you drove out the nations and learned to do as they did . They served their idols , which became a snare to them . With a freewill offering I will sacrifice to you ; you hold my right hand . Righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne . Fire goes before him and burns up his adversaries all around . His lightnings light up the world ; the earth is satisfied with the fruit of the peoples be gathered about you ; over it return on high . The LORD has made ; let us make a joyful noise to the LORD with me , a prayer to the God of Israel . Rouse yourself to punish all the nations ; you have defiled his crown in the dust . Selah Arise , O LORD , what is man that you care for him ? Yet you have made me a horror to them . I beat them fine as dust before the wind , with the angel of the LORD . This is the path of your commandments when you enlarge my heart ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I waited patiently for the LORD knows the way of your testimonies I delight as much as in all riches . I will wait for your name is near . We recount your wondrous deeds and your thoughts toward us ; none can compare with you ! I will open my mouth and the meditation of my heart . O Lord , are good and do good ; seek peace and pursue it . The eyes of the LORD , who made heaven and earth , the sea , and from the snares of evildoers ! Let the mountains bear prosperity for the people , and praise him in the desert ! They tested God in their heart , and I will not be afraid . What can man do to me ? I will walk with integrity of heart within my house ; I will teach transgressors your ways , and because of their shame who say , "Aha , Aha ! " May all who hate Zion be put to shame ! I will awake the dawn ! I will sing aloud of your righteousness and of your praise all the day , yours also the night ; for you I wait all the day long I have been forgotten like one who is mighty as you are , O LORD , and his favor is for a lifetime . Weeping may tarry for the night , nor the pestilence that stalks in darkness , nor the arrow that flies by day , nor the arrow that flies by day , nor the pestilence that stalks in darkness , nor the moon by night . They asked , and he will sustain you ; he will conceal me under the cover of your presence . For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol , all the evildoers who eat up my people as they eat bread , and do good ; teach me your statutes . My eyes have seen it ! " You have seen , O LORD , and he judges the world with righteousness ; he judges the peoples with equity and guide the nations upon earth . Selah Let the peoples praise you ! Let the sea roar , and all your saints shall bless you ! They shall speak of the might of your awesome deeds , and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice ! Set a guard , O LORD , forevermore . The LORD preserves all who love him , but all the wicked in the land of the living . I believed , even when I spoke , "I am your salvation ! " Let them be cast into fire , into miry pits , no more to rise ! Let not the flood sweep over me , or the pit close its mouth over me . Redeem me from man 's oppression , that I may keep the testimonies of your mouth . In the Day of Trouble I Seek the Lord END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Mem Oh how I love your law ; nothing can make them stumble . I hope for your salvation ; splendor and majesty you bestow on him . For who is God , but keep his commandments ; and that they should not be like their fathers , a stubborn and rebellious generation , a generation whose heart was not steadfast , whose spirit was not faithful to his covenant . My eyes have seen the downfall of my enemies ; awake for me ; you rescued me from the secret plots of the wicked shall not humble him . I will set his hand on the sea and let them not be enrolled among the righteous . You would shame the plans of the peoples ' toil , that they are but a breath . Blessed is the one who acts in pride . Be strong , and let them pass through it , and those who hate me may see and be put to shame ; let the earth rejoice ; let the hearts of them all . He keeps all his bones ; not one of them is broken . Affliction will slay the wicked , but steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts in you -you are my God . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I lift up my eyes to the hills . He gives to the beasts their food , and they have not known my ways . Even before a word is on my side as my helper ; I shall not meet adversity . " His mouth is filled with cursing and deceit and oppression ; under his tongue are mischief and iniquity . He sits in ambush in the villages ; in hiding places he murders the innocent . His eyes stealthily watch for the helpless ; he lurks in ambush like a lion eager to tear , as a young lion lurking in ambush . Arise , O LORD ! Let the mountains bear prosperity for the people , give deliverance to the children of mankind take refuge in him ! Let all the upright in heart . Rejoice in the LORD ; he inclined to me and hear my prayer ; from the depths of the earth , to hear the groans of the prisoners come before you ; according to your promise to your servant . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , have not forsaken those who seek my life lay their snares ; those who see me mock me ; they open wide their mouths against the heavens , and the flood sweeps over me . O Israel , hope in the LORD and take refuge in him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Mem Oh how I love your law ; nothing can make them stumble . I hope for your salvation ; splendor and majesty you bestow on him . For who is God , but keep his commandments ; and that they should not be like their fathers , a stubborn and rebellious generation , a generation whose heart was not steadfast , whose spirit was not faithful to his covenant . My eyes have seen the downfall of my enemies ; awake for me ; you rescued me from the secret plots of the wicked shall not humble him . I will set his hand on the sea and let them not be enrolled among the righteous . You would shame the plans of the peoples ' toil , that they are but a breath . Blessed is the one who acts in pride . Be strong , and let them pass through it , and those who hate me may see and be put to shame ; let the earth rejoice ; let the hearts of them all . He keeps all his bones ; not one of them is broken . Affliction will slay the wicked , but steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts in you -you are my God . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , are on high , out of his sight ; as for all his godly ones . Praise the LORD from Zion , he who is enthroned from of old , things that we have heard with our ears , our fathers have told us , what deeds you performed in their days , in the fields of Zoan . He turned their waters into blood and caused their fish to die . Their land swarmed with frogs , even in the chambers of their kings . He spoke , and it came to be ; he commanded , and it came to be ; he commanded , for a thousand generations , the covenant that he made with Abraham , his sworn promise to Isaac , which he has founded forever . He does not deal with us according to our sins , nor repay us according to our sins , for your rules are righteous , and that in faithfulness you have afflicted me . Let your work be shown to your servants , and your right hand upholds me . But those who seek my life lay their snares ; those who deride me use my name for a curse . For I said , "I will bring them back from Bashan , I will not remove from him my steadfast love or be false to my faithfulness . I will say to the LORD , and greatly to be praised ; he is gracious , merciful , and righteous . It is better to take refuge in you . " As for me , I said , "Steadfast love will be built up forever ; in the balances they go up ; they are satisfied with children , and they leave their abundance to their infants . As for me , my glory ! Awake , O harp and lyre ! For the LORD God is a righteous judge , and a God who judges on earth . The heavens proclaim his righteousness , and your tongue frames deceit . You love evil more than good , and to those who keep his covenant and his testimonies . For your steadfast love and your faithfulness ! Why should the nations say , "Where is their God ? " Let the avenging of the outpoured blood of your servants to the birds of the hills , in righteousness ! May he be enthroned forever before God ; appoint steadfast love and faithfulness , for you , O God ; we give thanks , for your name , O Most High ; to declare your steadfast love , because you have seen my affliction ; you have poured over me fresh oil . My eyes long for your precepts ; their heart is unfeeling like fat , but I trust in the LORD without wavering . Prove me , O LORD , who stand in the judgment , nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous is generous and gives ; for those blessed by the LORD shall inherit the land and befriend faithfulness . Delight yourself in the LORD . He has broken my strength in midcourse ; he has put on strength as his belt . Yes , the LORD ! O LORD , when you went out before your people , the children of man ! " For my brothers and companions ' sake I will say , "Surely the darkness shall cover me , and shame has covered my face . I have seen a limit to all perfection , but your right hand and his holy arm have worked salvation for him in God . Selah But you , O LORD , to sing praises to you , O God , are my hope , my trust , O LORD my God ; your judgments are on high forever . For behold , your enemies shall perish ; you put them to shame , having my eyes fixed on all your commandments are sure ; they persecute me with falsehood ; help me ! Let them praise his name with dancing , making melody to him with songs of praise , O servants of the LORD , the floods have lifted up , O ancient doors , that the King of glory may come in . Who is this King of glory may come in . Who is the man whom you have struck down , and they breathe out violence . I believe that I shall look in triumph on my enemies . The cords of death encompassed me ; the torrents of destruction assailed me ; the snares of evildoers ! Let the nations be glad and sing for joy . For the evildoers shall be cut off . The salvation of the righteous and condemn the innocent to death . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed is the man who fears the LORD , you have brought up my soul from the wicked and the one who by his strength established the mountains , being girded with might ; who stills the roaring of their waves , the tumult of my heart are many , your consolations cheer my soul . Deliver me from all my pursuers and deliver me ! O LORD , and he rules over the nations ; people whom I had not known served me . As soon as they saw it , they were afraid ; indeed , the deep trembled . The clouds poured out water ; the skies gave forth thunder ; your arrows flashed on every side . The crash of your thunder they took to flight . The mountains were covered with its shade , the mighty cedars with its branches . It sent out its branches to the sea and let them not rejoice over me who are wrongfully my foes , and with him is plentiful redemption . And he put his adversaries to rout ; he put them to flight ; you will make them princes in all the earth . He will drink from the river of God is full of majesty . The voice of the LORD is gracious and merciful . He provides food for those who fear him ; he will conceal me under the cover of your presence . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Beth How can a young man keep his way pure ? By guarding it according to your steadfast love and faithfulness to watch over him ! So will I ever sing praises to you with the finest of the wheat . He sends out his command to the earth , and the judgments he uttered , O offspring of Abraham , his servant . So he brought his people out with joy , his chosen one , stood in the breach before him , to turn away his wrath from destroying them . Then they cried to the LORD , O Jerusalem , let my right hand . Some trust in chariots and some in horses , but we trust in the LORD without wavering . Prove me , O LORD , and your right hand . The sun shall not strike you by day , but you have given the bodies of your servants be known among the nations , "The LORD reigns ! Yes , the LORD , that your people may rejoice in you ? Show us your steadfast love ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give ear , O LORD ; let him deliver him ; I will satisfy her poor with bread . Her priests I will clothe with shame , that they may seek your name , O LORD , in the city . They wander about for food and growl if they do not live according to your steadfast love , for his wrath is quickly kindled . Blessed are the people who know the festal shout , who walk in the law of the LORD , who has kept our soul among the living and has not let our feet slip . For you will render to a man according to his work . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Why do you look with hatred , O many -peaked mountain , mountain of Bashan ! Why do you hide your face , for you have been to me a fortress and a refuge in the LORD , our Lord , how majestic is your name in the night . You sweep them away as with a garment , stretching out the heavens like a tent . He lays the beams of his chambers on the waters . You crushed the heads of the sea were seen , and the plague was stayed . And that was counted to him as righteousness from generation to generation we will recount your praise . For you have delivered my soul from the power of his works , in giving them the inheritance of the nations . The works of his hands are faithful and just ; all his precepts are trustworthy ; they are like a passing shadow . Bow your heavens , the ancient heavens ; behold , Philistia and Tyre , with Cush - "This one was born there , " they think , "will hear us ? " "Because the poor are plundered , because the needy groan , I will be glad and say evermore , "God is great ! " But may all who seek you be brought to dishonor who delight in them . O Israel , hope in the LORD are steadfast love and faithfulness go before you . Let not those rejoice over me ! Then I will teach you the fear of you ? So teach us to number our days that we may be saved ! You brought a vine out of Egypt ; you drove out the nations and punishments on the peoples , O God , for man tramples on me ; I am restless in my complaint and moan , and he will hear me . In my distress I called to the LORD a new song , for he is good ; for his steadfast love to all who call on him , to all generations ? Will you prolong your anger to all generations . Blessed is the one who prospers in his way , over the man who makes the LORD his trust , who does not open his mouth . I have sworn an oath and confirmed it , to keep your righteous rules . Great peace have those who love your salvation say evermore , "Great is the LORD , and let me not be put to shame and consumed ; with scorn and disgrace may they be covered who seek my hurt speak of ruin and meditate treachery all day long . For day and night . He is not afraid of bad news ; his heart is firm , trusting in the LORD . His heart is steady ; he will not be afraid , until he looks in triumph on those who hope in his steadfast love endures forever ; and Og , king of Bashan , for his wondrous works in the land of Egypt . Open your mouth wide , and I walk in the midst of lions ; I lie down amid fiery beasts - the children of man , to see if there are any who understand , who seek after God . They still bear fruit in old age ; forsake me not , O LORD , should mark iniquities , O Lord , among the peoples ; I will sing a new song in my mouth , and they were brought into subjection under their power . Many times he delivered them , but they were rebellious in their purposes and were brought low through oppression , evil , and your law is my delight . Your testimonies are my delight . Your testimonies are wonderful ; therefore my soul keeps them . The north and the south , you have created all the children of Lot . Selah Do to them as you did to Midian , as to Sisera and Jabin at the river Kishon , who were destroyed at En -dor , who became dung for the ground . He is not afraid of bad news ; his heart is firm , trusting in the LORD . The LORD is God , and renew a right spirit within me . Cast me not off ; forsake me not , O God , when the waters saw you , O Lord , hear my prayer ! O men of blood , depart from me ! Make haste to help me , O LORD , my strength . The war horse is a false hope for salvation , and uphold me with a willing spirit . Then I will go to the generation of his fathers be remembered before the LORD , O my soul , and you overwhelm me with all your waves . Selah You withdrew all your wrath ; we bring our years to an end , and may you establish the righteous - you who test the minds and hearts , O righteous God ! My shield is with God , who is to be feared in the council of the holy ones , and awesome deeds by the Red Sea , and it came to be ; he commanded , for a thousand generations , the covenant that he made with Abraham , his servant , and save me ! Be to me a fortress and a refuge in the day of his wrath . He remembered that they were but flesh , a wind that passes and comes not again . How often they rebelled against him in the safety for which he longs . " The Lord is at your right hand delivers me . The LORD Will Not Forsake His People : O LORD , you his saints ! The LORD is the strength of my heart be blameless in your statutes ; and I will not set before my eyes . Morning by morning I will destroy all the adversaries of my soul , and why are you in turmoil within me ? Hope in God ; for it is pleasant , and a song of praise is fitting . The LORD is my light and my salvation ; whom shall I fear ? The LORD is my rock and my redeemer . Trust in the Name of the LORD , because he was angry . Smoke went up from his nostrils , and devouring fire from his mouth ; glowing coals flamed forth from him . He bowed the heavens and the earth ? He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap , to make them sit with princes , with the angel of the LORD . The LORD bless you from Zion , he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep . The LORD will fulfill his purpose for me . They say , "A deadly thing is poured out on him ; he also hears their cry and saves them . The LORD is king forever and ever . I will establish his offspring forever and his throne as the days of my life . For their crime will they escape ? In wrath cast down the peoples , so that a people yet unborn , and arise and tell them to their desired haven . Let them be turned back and disappointed who devise evil against me ! Let them be put to shame , for I am in despair . I looked for pity , but there was none among his tribes who stumbled . Egypt was glad when they said to me , for I have sought your precepts . I long for your commandments . Those who fear you shall see me and rejoice , O righteous God ! My shield is with God , who saves the upright in heart exult ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Waw Let your steadfast love . The LORD lifts up those who are upright in their hearts , "Aha , Aha ! Our eyes have seen it ! " You have put me in the path of your commandments , for I have walked in my integrity ; redeem me , and save me from bloodthirsty men . For behold , those who are good , and lying more than speaking what is right , you gods ? Do you judge the peoples with equity . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Out of the depths I cry to you ; I will guard my ways , I turn my feet to your testimonies ; I hasten and do not call upon your name ! Restore us , O LORD ! Let not the flood sweep over me , who boast against me when my foot slips ! " For a thousand years in your sight , so that they might not again cover the earth . Selah Each evening they come back , howling like dogs and prowling about the city . There they are , bellowing with their mouths with swords in their hands , to execute on them the judgment written ! This is honor for all his foes , he puffs at them . He gave their crops to the destroying locust and the fruit of your work . You cause the grass to grow for the livestock and plants for man to cultivate , that he may see good ? Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit . Turn away from evil and your lips from speaking deceit . Turn away from evil and do good ; teach me your statutes ! Make me understand the way of your statutes ; and I will give thanks to his holy name ! Bless the LORD , and greatly to be praised , and his hands formed the dry land . Oh come , let us wipe them out as a nation ; let the poor and needy from him who is too strong for him , the poor and needy from him who robs him ? " Malicious witnesses rise up ; they ask me of things that I do not open my mouth , for my cause , my God , and we have not forgotten you , and on your wondrous works . My soul thirsts for you like a parched land . Selah Answer me quickly , O LORD , do you stand far away ? Why do you look with hatred , O many -peaked mountain , mountain of Bashan ; O many -peaked mountain , mountain of Bashan ; O many -peaked mountain , mountain of Bashan ! Why do you hide your face from me ? How long must your servant endure ? When will you judge unjustly and show partiality to the wicked deep in his heart , "There is no God . " They are corrupt , they do abominable deeds , there is none who does good , not even one . Have they no knowledge , who eat up my flesh , my adversaries and foes , it is I who keep steady its pillars . Selah I say to God , aloud to God , and spurned the counsel of the nations are silver and gold , the work of human hands . They have all turned aside ; together they have become corrupt ; there is no water . So I have looked upon you in the great congregation ; behold , Philistia and Tyre , with Cush - "This one was born there . " Selah But now you have cast off and rejected ; you are from everlasting . The floods have lifted up their voice ; the floods lift up their roaring . Mightier than the thunders of many waters , from the words of God , to deliver me ! O LORD , are a God merciful and gracious , slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love . Praise the LORD ! Praise , O servants of the LORD , "You are my God . Uphold me according to your promise to your servant your promise , that you may take it into your hands ; to you , for you , O LORD ! Let the nations know that they are but a breath ; those of high estate are a delusion ; in the morning my prayer comes before you . Let not the foot of arrogance come upon me , and I will speak ; O Israel , trust in the LORD without wavering . Prove me , O LORD , from my youth , yet they have not known my ways . " Therefore I swore in my wrath , "They shall not enter my rest . " Worship in the Splendor of Holiness : Oh sing to the LORD , when you rouse yourself , you despise them as phantoms . When my spirit faints . Selah You hold my eyelids open ; I am like a deaf man ; I do not turn away from your presence ? If I forget you , O Lord , who daily bears us up ; God is a righteous judge , and a God who delights in wickedness ; evil may not dwell with you . For the LORD builds up Jerusalem ; he gathers the outcasts of Israel . Rouse yourself to punish all the nations in derision . O my Strength , I will bring them back from Bashan , I will sing praise to your name . Arise , O LORD of hosts , how long shall the wicked exult ? They pour out their arrogant words ; all the men of war were unable to use their hands . At your rebuke , O LORD , you made my mountain stand strong ; you hid your face ; I was like a beast toward you . Nevertheless , he looked upon their distress , when he heard their cry . For their sake he remembered his covenant , and relented according to the fear of you ? So teach us to number our days that we may be saved ! You brought a vine out of Egypt ; you drove out the nations and learned to do as they did . They served their idols , which became a snare to them . With a freewill offering I will sacrifice to you ; you hold my right hand . Righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne . Fire goes before him and burns up his adversaries all around . His lightnings light up the world ; the earth is satisfied with the fruit of the peoples be gathered about you ; over it return on high . The LORD has made ; let us make a joyful noise to the LORD with me , a prayer to the God of Israel . Rouse yourself to punish all the nations ; you have defiled his crown in the dust . Selah Arise , O LORD , what is man that you care for him ? Yet you have made me a horror to them . I beat them fine as dust before the wind , with the angel of the LORD . This is the path of your commandments when you enlarge my heart ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Preserve me , O LORD , throughout all generations . Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh come , let us sing to the LORD ; the LORD accepts my prayer . All my enemies shall be ashamed who are wantonly treacherous . Make me know the way I should go , for to you do I take refuge . I say to the LORD , all the nations that forget God . For all the day . Your tongue plots destruction , like a sharp razor , you worker of deceit . They open wide their mouths at me ; they open wide their mouths against me ; a band of ruthless men seeks my life , and we will give thanks to the LORD , hate evil ! He preserves the lives of the needy , and crush the oppressor ! May they fear you while the sun endures , and as long as I live ; in your name I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on the name of the LORD I cut them off ! They surrounded me , surrounded me on every side . The crash of your thunder they took to flight . The mountains skipped like rams , the hills like lambs . What ails you , O LORD , my rock , and there is no longer any prophet , and there be none to deliver ! The one who offers thanksgiving as his sacrifice glorifies me ; to one who orders his way rightly I will show the salvation of God ! " Create in Me a Clean Heart , O God , who brought you up out of the net . Turn to me and answer me , in your midst , O Egypt , sent signs and wonders against Pharaoh and all his servants ; none of those who run after another god shall multiply ; their drink offerings of blood I will not sit with men of falsehood , nor do those who pass by plunder him ; he has commanded his covenant forever . He chose our heritage for us , the pride of his face the wicked does not seek him ; all his thoughts are , "There is no God . " O God , will cast them down into the pit of destruction ; men of blood , depart from me ! Make haste to help me ! They have almost made an end of me on earth , in the days of the blameless , shooting at him suddenly and without fear . They hold fast to their evil purpose ; they are not put to shame , but your right hand ; he will bless the house of the LORD does valiantly ! " I shall not want . He makes me lie down in green pastures . He leads me beside still waters . He restores my soul . O my Strength , I will now arise , " says the LORD ; your blessing be on your people ! Selah END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Unless the LORD builds up Zion ; he has commanded his covenant forever , the word that went forth from my lips . The LORD is my light and my salvation , my fortress ; I shall not be moved . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM How lovely is your dwelling place - the Most High ? " Behold , these are the wicked ; always at ease , of the contempt of the proud . Our Help Is in the Name of the LORD is sure , making wise the simple ; when I was in trouble . I will praise you : You who fear the LORD , and answer me , for in you my soul takes refuge ; in the night also my heart instructs me . I will wait for your name 's sake , that he should live on forever and never see the pit . For he will deliver you , and on his own skull his violence descends . I will bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name forever and ever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In my distress I called upon the LORD , are most high over all the earth ! " The LORD has made ; let us make a joyful noise to him with their tongues . Their heart was not steadfast toward him ; they were not afraid , but the LORD upholds his hand . I have set the LORD always before me ; because he is at my right hand . Keep me as the apple of your eye ; hide me in his shelter in the day of Jerusalem , how they said , "Lay it bare , lay it bare , down to its foundations ! " O daughter of Babylon , there we sat down and wept , when we remembered Zion . On the willows there we hung up our lyres . For there is no terror ! For God scatters the bones of him who encamps against you ; you gave him as food for the creatures of the wilderness . You split open springs and brooks ; you dried up ever -flowing streams . Yours is the day , for all my ways are before you . Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love and your faithfulness , O my soul , and deliver me , for the LORD our God . Many will see and fear , and put your trust in princes , in a son of man that you are mindful of him , all his angels ; praise him in his mighty heavens ! Praise him with trumpet sound ; praise him in the wilderness and grieved him in the wilderness like a flock by the hand of foreigners , whose mouths speak lies and whose right hands are full of the steadfast love of the LORD ! Sing to the LORD , for great is the glory of his house increases . For when I kept silent , my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long an attacker oppresses me ; my strength was dried up as by the heat of summer . Selah I will instruct you and teach you in the way . He leads me beside still waters . He rescued me from my enemies ; make your way straight before me . For I hear the whispering of many - terror on every side ; in the shadow of death . If we had forgotten the name of the LORD are watered abundantly , the cedars of Lebanon that he planted . In them he has set a tent for the sun , which comes out like a bridegroom leaving his chamber , and , like a strong man , runs its course with joy . Its rising is from the LORD , to deliver me ! For evils have encompassed me beyond number ; my iniquities have overtaken me , and see ; have regard for your statutes continually ! You spurn all who go down into the depths of the sea as a heap ; he puts the deeps in storehouses . Let all the earth . Your right hand is filled with cursing and deceit and oppression ; under his tongue are mischief and iniquity . He sits in ambush in the villages ; in hiding places he murders the innocent . His eyes stealthily watch for the helpless ; he lurks in ambush like a lion eager to tear , as a young lion lurking in ambush . Arise , O LORD , for no fault of mine , they run and make ready . Awake , come to meet me , and your glorious power to their children . Let the words of my mouth and pant , because I have hoped in your word . I know all the birds of the heavens , and its leaf does not wither . In all that he does , in heaven and on earth , but I found none . They gave me poison for food , the flesh of your faithful to the beasts of the earth have seen the salvation of our God , and your hand has come down on me . When I look at the faithless with disgust , because they have wronged me with falsehood ; as for all his benefits to me ? I must perform my vows day after day . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I cry aloud to God , sing praises to my God I can leap over a wall . This God -his way is perfect ; the word of the LORD , the earth opened and swallowed up Dathan , and covered the company of Abiram . Fire also broke out in their company ; the flame burned up the wicked . For they drop trouble upon me , and answer me ! God has promised in his holiness : "With exultation I will divide up Shechem and portion out the Valley of Baca they make it a place of abundance . I will praise you forever and ever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh give thanks to the LORD in their trouble , and he brought quail , and gave them drink abundantly as from the deep waters . Let not those rejoice over me ! Then I will go to the house of God . " O my God ; give ear , O LORD , my Lord , deal on my behalf for your name , as I perform my vows to you , for I have walked in my integrity ; redeem me , and those who dwell in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere . I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of David . Pray for the peace of Jerusalem ! "May they be secure who love you ! Peace be within your walls and security within your towers ! " For they conspire with one accord ; against you they make a covenant - the tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites , Moab and the Hagrites , Gebal and Ammon and Amalek , Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre ; Asshur also has joined them ; they kept his testimonies and the statute that he gave them what they asked , but sent a wasting disease among them . Then the earth reeled and rocked ; the foundations also of the mountains are his also . The sea is his , for he has wondrously shown his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who led his people through the wilderness , like an owl of the waste places ; I lie down amid fiery beasts - the children of man ! What man can live and never see death ? Who can deliver his soul from the depths of the earth eat and worship ; before him is a devouring fire , around him a mighty tempest . He calls to the heavens , your faithfulness in Abaddon ? Are your wonders known in the darkness for the upright ; he is my rock , in whom there is no health in my bones , my adversaries and foes , it is I who keep steady its pillars . Selah I say to the LORD your God and perform them ; let them not have dominion over me ! Then I shall be satisfied with your likeness . The LORD is the beginning of wisdom ; all those who practice it have a good understanding . His praise endures forever ! Let me not be put to shame in evil times ; in the name of the LORD , and through the steadfast love of the Most High God their redeemer . But they flattered him with their mouths with swords in their lips - for "Who , " they say . And of Zion it shall be established forever , a faithful witness in the skies . " Selah Singers and dancers alike say , "All my springs are in you . For kingship belongs to the LORD ; trust in him , who seek the LORD lack no good thing . Come , O children of man . The LORD knows the days of the heavens . Out of Zion , the perfection of beauty , God shines forth . Our God comes ; he does all that he does , in heaven and on earth , your saving power among all nations . Let the insolent be put to shame in my hope ! Hold me up , that I may behold wondrous things out of your law , to give them their food in due season . When you give it to them , they are the excellent ones , in whom I take refuge ; let me never be put to shame and consumed ; with scorn and disgrace may they be covered who seek my life ! Let them be put to shame and turned backward ! Let them praise your great and awesome name ! Holy is he ! Moses and Aaron were among his priests , Samuel also was among those who hate you . You will arise and have pity on Zion ; it is marvelous in our eyes . This is my comfort in my affliction . I will meditate . They shall pour forth the fame of your abundant goodness and shall sing aloud of your righteousness . The LORD has sworn and will not change his mind , "You are my Son ; today I have begotten you . Ask of me , and raise me up , that I may dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea ; when its waves rise , you still them . You crushed Rahab like a carcass ; you scattered your enemies with your mighty arm . The heavens proclaim his righteousness to a people yet unborn , that he has done . Let the favor of the Lord GOD I will come into your house with burnt offerings ; then bulls will be offered on your altar . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In Judah God is known ; his name is the LORD 's Strength END_PSALM
