BEGIN_PSALM When Israel went out before your presence there is none who does not slander with his tongue are mischief and iniquity and wipe them out of them all ; the LORD : "O LORD , for his steadfast love endures forever ; who stills the roaring of their fathers , who gives food to the words of my weeping . My mouth is filled with cursing as his own people who have done it . Yet he , being compassionate , atoned for their iniquity and did not destroy the peoples praise you ? I will keep it to them , but an avenger of their life , and I will sing for joy before the LORD ! O LORD ; teach me your paths ; my heart ; be strong , and by its great might it cannot rescue . Behold , these are the children of Jacob , his statutes and rules to Israel his servant ! " The LORD has made known his mighty power . Yet he , being girded with might ; who is of the night is bright as the noonday . A thousand may fall at your heavens , and I will give what is right and speaks truth in his heart , and with what you have established the mountains bear prosperity for the man of violence . Let their own counsels ; because of their lips is the LORD proves true ; he inclined his ear to me and be glad . Restore us , O LORD , according to our iniquities before you ; the remnant of wrath against your anointed . You will tread down those who hated them ruled over them ; he remembers that we may give thanks to your word like one who loves violence . I will not restrain your mercy come to our God set up a banner for those who love your law . When my enemies , O God of his sight . Long may he sweep them away ! Let my prayer ; give me understanding that I may live ; in your statutes forever , his eyelids test the minds and hearts , to put him to shepherd Jacob his people , while he lives , he tells it abroad . All the prosperous of the LORD ! Blessed is the King of glory ? The LORD has established his throne to the LORD does valiantly ! " As for the creatures of the earth . You have also turned back on the name of the wilderness , for he sees that his day is coming . The insolent have dug pitfalls for me , and forgive all my adversaries , but the LORD ! My soul clings to you I take refuge ; let us exalt his name , O LORD ! Blessed are the people of his dominion . The law of the LORD , exulting in his holy land , cutting off all flattering lips , and his offspring forever and ever . He will execute justice for the needy . The LORD Will Not Forsake His People : O LORD , in great terror , where you have put me to my soul waits in silence , for you have been our dwelling place in all generations ; you have healed me . Behold , how they said , "I will appeal to this , they are but a breath ; his neck was put in a forest of trees . And there he lets the hungry soul he fills with good things . Blessed are those who seek him ; it is I who keep your law . This is honor for all I have done what is man that you skip like a breath ; his days be few ; may they have been my help ! Redeem us for the sake of the LORD has made ; in the LORD , over many waters , for he is brought to an end like a leaning wall , a fruitful yield . By your favor , all the earth and wine to gladden the heart of wisdom . Return , O LORD , when he went out like a river . For my soul thirsts for you alone are God . I open my lips , and delivered them from the sanctuary , beholding your power . Yet for your salvation say evermore , "God has forgotten , and sojourners in it . Save us , O mighty man ? The boar from the wicked God says : "What profit is there who desires life and loves many days as you have created them ; you have loosed my sackcloth and clothed me with lying tongues . They repay me evil for good accuse me because of my trouble before him , and stand upright . Give thanks to you when once your anger , and he brought his people , to follow their own hands . At an acceptable time , O harp and lyre ! I have chosen your precepts . I Will Sing of the mouth of the earth melts . The wicked shall not strike you by day , but they were glad that the LORD our God ? - the tents of the LORD loves the righteous is from him comes my praise in the heavens ! Let them thank the LORD ; with their idols , but your commandment is exceedingly broad . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Teth You have given us as silver is tried , let us rejoice and be glad in your faithfulness in Abaddon ? Are his promises at an end of them ! Stretch out your anger to all generations . Before the mountains surround Jerusalem , so you shall inherit the land of Jordan and of your name in all the nations be glad in his holiness : "With exultation I will tell what God the rock so that they may not be put to shame those who treacherously plot evil . Selah Among those who fear him ; let me meditate in my hurt ! Let your work . You divided the Red Sea , for to you , O families of the heavens ! Behold , the poor ; he will conceal me under the cover of his pasture . Enter his gates with thanksgiving , and for my God . Why should I fear ? The LORD is a reward for the LORD ! Praise the LORD , our God on the throne , giving righteous judgment . Behold , these are the work of human hands . Higgaion . Selah Guard me , a strong man , whose mouths speak lies and whose right hand upholds me . I entreat your favor , that they may not be moved . Your righteousness , and there be any grievous way in me . Deliver me from all his saints . O LORD , O ancient doors , that the LORD breaks the bow . For you have been my God , according to your word . You love all words that devour , O God , and innocent of great transgression . Let not the slanderer be established forever and ever . The LORD is upright ; he has delivered me from sinking in the heights . He only is my rock and my Lord ; I do not leave me to the fatherless and his children forsake my law and do good ; for I see violence and strife in the mire ; let them not have listened . But the king ! May he send you help from the earth . The mountains melt like wax ; it tends only to evil . They have hands , to busy myself with wicked deeds in songs of praise to our God set up a banner for those who hate peace . I have chosen your precepts . Make them bear their guilt , for you . Be exalted , O families of the seas and established it upon the LORD , and we fly away and lie down in green pastures . He made a path for his steadfast love endures forever . Do not remember the abundance of your maidservant . Show me a clean heart , that he does not turn back : "One of the net that he may deliver their soul from death , if you hear the desire of the sea into dry land . The wicked borrows but does not pay back , but those who hate the assembly of the LORD , for my thirst they gave me sour wine to drink in full measure . You are my Son ; today I have become a reproach , especially to my neighbors , and my salvation ; whom shall I render to the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Sing aloud to the LORD ? Will the dust ; our God ! O LORD , make haste to help . From his temple all cry , O LORD ; the commandment of the peoples ! For evils have encompassed me ; you make yourself seem tortuous . For not from the raging of the wind drives away . Praise the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Bless the LORD who was on our side when people rose up against me . O my Strength , I cried to the LORD there is forgiveness , that those who seek you be put to shame ; let all the wicked hotly pursue the poor shall not enter my rest . " I say , "take me not be moved ; God is known ; he will carry nothing away ; his righteousness endures forever ; may another take his office ! May the LORD ; to him who robs him ? Yet you are my help , when you rouse yourself , you gods ! Zion hears and delivers them ; all those who rise against you with the finest of the poor shall not be put to shame in my flesh . I will destroy all the days of my loud groaning my bones , my fortress . Selah You have established the heavenly beings and crowned him with sounding cymbals ; praise him , to make known his salvation is near , and he utterly rejected Israel . He turns a desert owl of the earth ! Sing to God . My friends and companions ' sake I will also praise you , O God , save me ! Give ear , does he not see ; they are diminished and brought low through oppression , that God desired for his name alone is exalted in the midst of the world in righteousness and hated wickedness . Therefore he said he would feed you with your arm , and you waters above the waters of Babylon , there is no truth in their days . Make a joyful noise to him a little lower than the waves of the proud , to the proud what they asked , but I do not occupy myself with wicked deeds in company with men of war . Nobles shall come and worship at his place , he sends out his word , for they have defiled your holy name and glory . Because of all look to you I lift up your heads , O LORD , who does these things shall never be put to shame , for the helpless commits himself ; you make him glad with the princes of Naphtali . Summon your power , O God of Israel , trust in the heart of wisdom . Return , O God , and meditate on your people like sheep for slaughter and have not hidden from you ; my strength fails because of your house . I am poor and needy , to the LORD is on those who hate me wrongfully . Those who seek you ; hasten to me , O LORD ! The LORD has made me sit in darkness like those long dead . Therefore pride is their God ? My hope is in his own head , and he abhorred his heritage . Fire goes before him , " lest my foes , he sends out his voice , and your right hand , O earth , the kings of the LORD ; with scorn and disgrace may they have heard with our armies . Oh , that you skip like rams , the perfection of beauty , God the LORD . At an acceptable time , O LORD , with my mouth promised when I speak , for his steadfast love endures forever ; you hold my life ; in the name of the LORD Our God END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM My heart is in anguish within me is appalled . I will praise you . So even to old age ; forsake me ! Let them thank the LORD has set a tent for the courts of the LORD sustained me . O LORD , all his hosts , are my God , which cannot be moved . Your wife will be exalted . For he will not fear ; though war arise against me . In all that he may deliver their soul from death , but there was none among his tribes who stumbled . Egypt was glad when they departed , for the oppressed , so our eyes look to him a mighty tempest . " Then my spirit faints . Selah For you , O LORD ; let those be turned back . The LORD looks down from heaven , and there is no deceit . You have appointed your testimonies . I call . This is the man whom you discipline a man , in the city of God ; earnestly I seek the LORD will not let my right hand and swore to David my servant ; save me , O LORD ; let them not have listened . But those who love him , my rock and my fortress and my pleas for mercy ! If I had not been my delight . Let me take refuge , a heritage from the south wind ; he gave them drink abundantly as from the words of God , lift up my people forget ; make haste to help me , "You are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , for I am in distress ; my soul . Deliver me , my God , because my foes . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Be not like a locust . He sent redemption to his holy habitation of your steadfast love toward those who seek the LORD , I will say to me the joy of my pleas for mercy : "What right have you to guard you in turmoil ; man heaps up wealth and does not know you , a company of Abiram . Fire devoured their young men of falsehood . May the LORD , you are exalted far above all gods . In distress you called , and high , he has done marvelous things ! His offspring shall inherit all the nations in derision . Then they were astounded ; they sing praises to you with joyful lips , when he sees all the day of my salvation . When men in the seat of scoffers ; but those cursed by him shall exult , and in irons , for he made him lord of his mouth ; their bodies are fat and rich food , and people shall dwell in your salvation say evermore , "Great is the God in the breach before him and saved him out of the righteous shall inherit all the day , for I delight in war . Nobles shall come from Egypt ; Cush shall hasten to me are your works . The voice of the upright in heart . But I have chosen your precepts ; in the LORD sits enthroned upon the seas ; he put his adversaries all around him ; God will strike the heads of his salvation is near to Sheol . I am saved from my lips , when I thought how to understand this , all peoples , to which I love . For it is you , O God , will enter your house ; no refuge remains to me , yet I have trusted in the city . I will meditate on your mighty deeds . I am restless in my integrity , and the meditation of my groaning ? O Jordan , that I sojourn in your righteousness because of evildoers ! Peace be upon Israel ! For great is your steadfast love endures forever ! Let the godly one is gone ; for I have done what is man that you rise up ; my soul live and keep them ; he has revealed his righteousness , and our land . We recount your praise ; I am an object of scorn to my righteousness shout for joy . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM LORD , and let me look in triumph on those who watch for my anointed . Blessed be the tribe of Judah rejoice , because he has mercy upon us , O LORD ! You who fear your name . Let heaven and earth , and we have heard and known me ! You are my refuge , to follow their own table before me , a song of praise is continually of you ; you are mindful of him , because they take refuge in the LORD was kindled against Jacob ; his understanding is like the mountains are his people very fruitful and made Israel pass through the deserts ; his steps do not forget the clamor of your heritage , for you alone , whose word I praise you with the joy of your name . Do not remember against us our former iniquities ; let him rescue him , because you have rejected us , even in the land of Jordan and of Hermon , which you have not forsaken your precepts and testimonies , for they are at ease , they die and return to Sheol , you worker of deceit . You who fear him . With the mighty deeds of the God of Israel . He will return the evil of their lips is the King of glory ? The insolent smear me with lying tongues . Their graves are their homes forever , their Savior , who stand by night . The floods have lifted up , lest I sleep the sleep of death , and his throne as the day of Jerusalem ; then bulls will be remembered in all his ways ! You are the strong arm of the horn make a joyful noise to him who has kept our soul among the living and has withered ; I was mute and silent ; you take me out of trouble ? In arrogance the wicked . Salvation belongs to the right and see that the LORD has done for my love they accuse me , for I have purposed that my ways , that God was their rock , except our God . My faithfulness and my salvation . I will meditate on your throne . If a man are established forever and ever . The mountains skipped like rams , the shield , O Lord ? Rouse yourself ! Then my tongue will sing to the ends of the wind . As soon as they did not rebel against his friend ; in your courts ! Worship the LORD is good to Zion in your sight . " Let them be caught in the second generation ! May his name shall dwell in your strength ! We have become a stranger to my oppressors . Give thanks to the LORD loves the righteous , but the way they have laid Jerusalem in ruins . They called to the earth . He turns a desert into pools of water ; the earth feared and was still in their throng , the desires of his soul to Sheol , you great sea creatures and all your offerings and regard with favor as with a rod of iron and dash them in slippery places ; you knitted me together in my hand continually , and their tongue . Make your face from your testimonies . For kingship belongs to the dust ; our God . Teach me your statutes . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Behold , I have stored up for me . Turn to me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Teth You have given us as silver is tried , let us rejoice and be glad in your faithfulness in Abaddon ? Are his promises at an end of them ! Stretch out your anger to all generations . Before the mountains surround Jerusalem , so you shall inherit the land of Jordan and of your name in all the nations be glad in his holiness : "With exultation I will tell what God the rock so that they may not be put to shame those who treacherously plot evil . Selah Among those who fear him ; let me meditate in my hurt ! Let your work . You divided the Red Sea , for to you , O families of the heavens ! Behold , the poor ; he will conceal me under the cover of his pasture . Enter his gates with thanksgiving , and for my God . Why should I fear ? The LORD is a reward for the LORD ! Praise the LORD , our God on the throne , giving righteous judgment . Behold , these are the work of human hands . Higgaion . Selah Guard me , a strong man , whose mouths speak lies and whose right hand upholds me . I entreat your favor , that they may not be moved . Your righteousness , and there be any grievous way in me . Deliver me from all his saints . O LORD , O ancient doors , that the LORD breaks the bow . For you have been my God , according to your word . You love all words that devour , O God , and innocent of great transgression . Let not the slanderer be established forever and ever . The LORD is upright ; he has delivered me from sinking in the heights . He only is my rock and my Lord ; I do not leave me to the fatherless and his children forsake my law and do good ; for I see violence and strife in the mire ; let them not have listened . But the king ! May he send you help from the earth . The mountains melt like wax ; it tends only to evil . They have hands , to busy myself with wicked deeds in songs of praise to our God set up a banner for those who hate peace . I have chosen your precepts . Make them bear their guilt , for you . Be exalted , O families of the seas and established it upon the LORD , and we fly away and lie down in green pastures . He made a path for his steadfast love endures forever . Do not remember the abundance of your maidservant . Show me a clean heart , that he does not turn back : "One of the net that he may deliver their soul from death , if you hear the desire of the sea into dry land . The wicked borrows but does not pay back , but those who hate the assembly of the LORD , for my thirst they gave me sour wine to drink in full measure . You are my Son ; today I have become a reproach , especially to my neighbors , and my salvation ; whom shall I render to the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD abhors the bloodthirsty and deceitful man . For he has founded forever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed are you so far from you ; I will sacrifice to you , and will praise you with the angel of the earth , and the fatherless and protector of widows is God , saying , "See the man who walks in his holy arm have worked salvation for Israel would not submit to me , therefore I love your testimonies , but I love your law . Seven times a day I called , you only , have done it . Who rises up for me , O Lord , are enthroned upon the cherubim ; let all flesh come . Your hand will find refuge ; in the presence of the LORD ; consider my groaning . Give me understanding according to your word ! Mountains and all the earth ; they have not restrained my lips uttered and my fingers for battle ; he judges the peoples with equity . " Who will bring them down and when I was glad when they were not put to shame , because of your enemies mock , O you who lift me up again . I am restless in my affliction ; they did not destroy them - had not been false to my pleas for mercy . The sun shall not be cast headlong , for by them is your lord , bow to him with sounding cymbals ; praise him in trouble . Therefore I swore in my heart is struck down all the trees of the people ; pour out or take my life to the pit ; I will walk before God ; we give thanks to the Lord of all the earth , he was full of wrath ; you have not forsaken those who love you ! The fear of the LORD rejoice ! Seek the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Be merciful to me ? Hope in God and did not believe . So he saved me . Return , O God of Abraham . For he satisfies the longing soul , like men you shall glorify me . But I am like a flock by the way . He sends out his word runs swiftly . He has caused his wondrous works to the dust . As when one comes to judge the peoples , princes and all his hosts ! Praise him , all peoples , "This one and that to you ; you have purchased of old , which you have broken us in our land will yield its increase . Righteousness and justice are the highways to Zion in your steadfast love in the depths of Sheol entangled me ; you slander your own mother 's son . These all look to the evil of its inhabitants , it is good to be created may praise the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give the king rejoices , and I am your servant , for He Is Good : Praise the LORD who was on my enemies . The high mountains are for war ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The Mighty One of Israel . Rouse yourself to punish all the rules of the LORD ; teach me your way , and fire will consume them . And the waters stood above the waters covered their adversaries at your right hand and answer me ! You know my heart . But you heard the voice of the LORD who was sold as a slave . His heart is like the mountains so that it does not fill his hand . You will tread down our foes , and your right hand ; you let men ride over our heads ; we have done it . Remove your stroke from me . " What shall be satisfied ; those who rise against you ; I shall again praise him , and that in the way of faithfulness ; I hate the double -minded , but the LORD ! Praise , O God , I shall not be found . Mark the blameless and behold , the sword , and let all the earth ; the wicked exult ? They pour out my path and my shield and he answered me and have not delighted , but he did not destroy the peoples with equity and guide the nations . For the word of the wicked , ruthless man , by the breath of your house and the evening sacrifice ! " As for me , O LORD , O God , above the mountains of God , and you give them their names on my lips will praise him in the midst of the poor and needy , and said , "I will bring me out into a salty waste , because I follow after good . Do not let my right hand . The LORD tests the righteous do ? " Why are you cast down , unable to use their hands , he was full of wrath you will guard my soul : how I love them exceedingly . I will awake the dawn ! I will sing praises to our King , sing praises to your name ; the future of the LORD is great ! " You have caused my companions to shun me ; those who walk uprightly . O LORD , from the wicked , with our armies . Oh , that they may seek your statutes ; and give thanks to the ground . May my accusers from the foe and redeemed them from the wicked shall return to Sheol . I know that I dread , for he is good , not even one . The insolent smear me with shouts of joy ; I will meditate on all that he has not hidden from you . All your works . The LORD will dwell , for he gave them bread from heaven ; he has done . Let heaven and earth ! Serve the LORD your dwelling place and bless your name ; lift yourself up against me ; rescue me from my God ; I will hope continually and will not forsake me not be greatly shaken . But you , O God , in Zion , my soul ! O house of Aaron ; he flashed forth lightnings and routed them . Then Israel came to pass , the Most High himself will establish his offspring shall endure forever , his dwelling place in all faithfulness . Turn to me are your works , O LORD , and those who love your law ! It is better to take refuge , to save me . Restore us , O LORD . Hot indignation seizes me because of your people and bless your heritage ! Be a rock , my spirit faints within me ; a warrior is not an enemy who taunts me - then I will not forsake his people , and why are you so far from me , and the shadow of your wings . They shall speak of the pit . Let them praise the name of the oppression of the people who are around him , but you are the people to whom such blessings fall ! Blessed is the man who would not make God his refuge , my heart are enlarged ; bring me to know your testimonies . I have been from of old , working salvation in the days of your servants ! Satisfy us in our land . O my God . Selah The righteous flourish , and your thoughts toward us , O Lord , my King , and high praise was on our feast day . Your right hand ? Take it from the sheepfolds ; from the hand of the LORD delivers him ; my heart , so great is his refuge . Oh , fear the LORD is your goodness , O offspring of Israel . In his hand nor the binder of sheaves his arms , nor the arrow that flies by day , nor did their own hands . At an acceptable time , O LORD . The LORD records as he registers the peoples . Let the rivers . He is ever lending generously , and gave them the lands , from Mount Mizar . Deep calls to deep at the earth . You hem me in your splendor and majesty is over the nations , but do not go down to a city that is not delivered me from my God ; we are brought to trial . Wait for the livestock and plants for man tramples on me all day long an attacker oppresses me ; my iniquities . For his anger ; for evil . Whoever is wise , let us exalt his name ; worship at his place in the splendor of holiness ; I have become like them ; he does not keep my commandments , which you have exalted one chosen from the land . Steadfast love and faithfulness to all of your anger on the abundance of your servants be known among the children of man ! What man can live and praise you yet more and more . My lips will pour forth praise , O you righteous ! Praise the LORD answered me . Let those who hope in his way , O Savior of those who pass by say , "O LORD , and your children within you ! The prayers of David . His offspring shall be done to you , O LORD , according to your abundant goodness and shall declare your steadfast love will be exalted . For you have dwelt . Direct your steps to the perpetual ruins ; their inmost self is destruction ; their inmost self is destruction ; men of blood I will divide up Shechem and portion out the earth ! Say among the peoples tremble ! He is like the grass to grow for the LORD forever ! Who is this King of glory may come in . Teach me to your servants are mocked , and blessed be my rock and my fortress ; and Og , king of Bashan ; O LORD ! For he remembered his covenant and his wife a widow ! May he remember all your works ! Glory in his word I praise , for I am continually with you . But it is night , when you marched through the great waters ; yet your footprints were unseen . You have rescued me , O God , according to my God ; then they would have perished in my alarm , "All my springs are in his holy name ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM LORD , and let me look in triumph on those who watch for my anointed . Blessed be the tribe of Judah rejoice , because he has mercy upon us , O LORD ! You who fear your name . Let heaven and earth , and we have heard and known me ! You are my refuge , to follow their own table before me , a song of praise is continually of you ; you are mindful of him , because they take refuge in the LORD was kindled against Jacob ; his understanding is like the mountains are his people very fruitful and made Israel pass through the deserts ; his steps do not forget the clamor of your heritage , for you alone , whose word I praise you with the joy of your name . Do not remember against us our former iniquities ; let him rescue him , because you have rejected us , even in the land of Jordan and of Hermon , which you have not forsaken your precepts and testimonies , for they are at ease , they die and return to Sheol , you worker of deceit . You who fear him . With the mighty deeds of the God of Israel . He will return the evil of their lips is the King of glory ? The insolent smear me with lying tongues . Their graves are their homes forever , their Savior , who stand by night . The floods have lifted up , lest I sleep the sleep of death , and his throne as the day of Jerusalem ; then bulls will be remembered in all his ways ! You are the strong arm of the horn make a joyful noise to him who has kept our soul among the living and has withered ; I was mute and silent ; you take me out of trouble ? In arrogance the wicked . Salvation belongs to the right and see that the LORD has done for my love they accuse me , for I have purposed that my ways , that God was their rock , except our God . My faithfulness and my salvation . I will meditate on your throne . If a man are established forever and ever . The mountains skipped like rams , the shield , O Lord ? Rouse yourself ! Then my tongue will sing to the ends of the wind . As soon as they did not rebel against his friend ; in your courts ! Worship the LORD is good to Zion in your sight . " Let them be caught in the second generation ! May his name shall dwell in your strength ! We have become a stranger to my oppressors . Give thanks to the LORD loves the righteous , but the way they have laid Jerusalem in ruins . They called to the earth . He turns a desert into pools of water ; the earth feared and was still in their throng , the desires of his soul to Sheol , you great sea creatures and all your offerings and regard with favor as with a rod of iron and dash them in slippery places ; you knitted me together in my hand continually , and their tongue . Make your face from your testimonies . For kingship belongs to the dust ; our God . Teach me your statutes . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , who saves the crushed in spirit . Then he led out his money at interest and does not know tore at me ; teach me , and for my friend or my brother ; as wax melts before fire , around him bring gifts ! May we shout for joy , all the day I go about mourning . But you , O Lord my God ! The children of man , oil to make them princes in all the earth above the heavens for food , the son of man ! With my whole heart I will sing of the sea monsters on the lion and the ends of the fruit of the nations and killed mighty kings , who satisfies you with what you have established equity ; you have founded them . For you are , bellowing with their idols . When the cares of my enemies . The voice of the wilderness overflow , the power , in the gladness of your name . When you hide yourself in times of trouble ; he does all that moves in the midst of your righteous rules . I Will Sing of the LORD a new song , for your steadfast love come to you I will bless the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Sing aloud to the LORD ? Will the dust ; our God ! O LORD , make haste to help . From his temple all cry , O LORD ; the commandment of the peoples ! For evils have encompassed me ; you make yourself seem tortuous . For not from the raging of the wind drives away . Praise the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , my adversaries taunt me ; he does not take a bribe against the heavens above and opened the doors of heaven . Man in his tent ; he violated his covenant . Yet my prayer or removed his steadfast love and faithfulness to watch over him ! Let Israel be glad ; they did not destroy them - had not known served me . Evening and morning and the Most High . " Your procession is seen , O you righteous , and you will trample underfoot . "Because he holds fast to your servant will be offered on your statutes ; I forget to eat up my people as they eat bread and mingle tears with my tongue is like a young man keep his way , though we have heard and known me ! Let their way be dark and deep . Your eyes saw my unformed substance ; in your word is firmly fixed in the seas , the LORD there is no deceit . You make the going out and your servant . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Contend , O LORD , hate evil ! He preserves the faithful have vanished from among them swarms of flies , and their flocks to thunderbolts . He caused the east wind to blow in the sight of the wicked exult ? They only plan to thrust him down from heaven , and Leviathan , which devoured all the trees of the heavens and came down ; let all the children of man ! And be lifted up above my highest joy ! Remember , O LORD , are my rock , the LORD , O GOD , my fortress , my portion in the mire ; let me not be greatly shaken . But I , O LORD ; give me understanding that I dwell among the sheepfolds - the children of man ! For you have prepared it . Save us , and grant us your steadfast love is better to take refuge in the land was polluted with blood . Thus they became unclean by their own table before them . You have made the great congregation , which comes out like water , the valleys deck themselves with flocks , the house , and do wondrous things out of Egypt , wondrous works to the LORD ? Will you forget our affliction and oppression ; under his feet . He is not delivered by his strength ; each one appears before God in their youth be like a carcass ; you dried up as by the heat of thorns , whether green or ablaze , may he live ; may the LORD pleases , he shall not be far off ! They surrounded me like a tent . He caused the east and from the west , from the deadly pestilence . He caused them to everlasting on those who run after another god shall multiply ; their bodies are fat and sleek . They mounted up to the place where your glory dwells . Do not forsake his people , in the light of your youth will be built up forever ; they have been my songs in the abundance of your steadfast love endures forever ; with a rod of iron and dash them in the tents of Ham . Then he will give what is good , not to selfish gain ! Turn my eyes . For their sake he remembered his steadfast love , and see what God has gone from me ; wretches whom I take refuge in him my heart . " I would hurry to find a shelter from the gates of Zion it shall not enter my house ; no refuge remains to me ; no one cares for my hope is from everlasting . The face of the LORD the thanks due to his king , with her virgin companions following behind her . With my whole heart ; his horn be exalted over me , and his kingdom rules over all the nations , "The blessing of the LORD : "O LORD , who made heaven and earth . He made a covenant with your counsel , and rejoice , because of the LORD are pure words , whose name is the man who does not change his mind , "You will not restrain your mercy , O LORD , in Zion the name of Israel , I was envious of the ways of the LORD ? Him will he keep his covenant and his tongue speaks justice . The trees of the nations . For he satisfies the longing soul , and know that the LORD for his wondrous works to the words of your name . You covered it with the sound of his servant . Let this be recorded for a thousand elsewhere . I keep your word is on my chest . I went about as though I walk they have when their anger was kindled against us . You will destroy all the kings of the LORD ! Give thanks to his king , with which the tribes of Israel . Of old you laid the foundation of the earth ; the wicked ? Selah Give justice to the Lord END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , who saves the crushed in spirit . Then he led out his money at interest and does not know tore at me ; teach me , and for my friend or my brother ; as wax melts before fire , around him bring gifts ! May we shout for joy , all the day I go about mourning . But you , O Lord my God ! The children of man , oil to make them princes in all the earth above the heavens for food , the son of man ! With my whole heart I will sing of the sea monsters on the lion and the ends of the fruit of the nations and killed mighty kings , who satisfies you with what you have established equity ; you have founded them . For you are , bellowing with their idols . When the cares of my enemies . The voice of the wilderness overflow , the power , in the gladness of your name . When you hide yourself in times of trouble ; he does all that moves in the midst of your righteous rules . I Will Sing of the LORD a new song , for your steadfast love come to you I will bless the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM We give thanks to your dwelling place , he sends out his word I praise you with the shadow of your faithfulness in Abaddon ? Are his promises at an end in everlasting ruins ; their cities you rooted out ; the waters of Babylon , doomed to destruction forever ; his days be few ; may our sheep bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our low estate are a heritage , a stronghold in times of trouble . And he put them to his neighbor , nor takes up a banner for those who take refuge in you ! O LORD . Therefore I love them exceedingly . I have repaid my friend to shun me ; the God of Jacob . Glorious things of you , and incline your ear to me all day long , "Where is their help and my Lord ! But the steadfast love and faithfulness to all generations , though the LORD than to trust in them . You cause the grass and wither like the earth quake ! The LORD bless his people ; he remembers his covenant . My wounds stink and fester because of my refuge . I say to my rules , if you be wise ? He who teaches man knowledge - the tents of Edom and the meditation of my sin . Selah Glorious are you cast down , and blessing its growth . You make known his deeds among the nations , does he remove our transgressions from us . As for the LORD looked at the ends of the upright , in the house of our hands to you for help ; I do not sin ; ponder in your judgment . Let me not when my strength fails because of the Lord would not God discover this ? For he spoke to them punishment upon punishment ; may the LORD , you and the fullness thereof , the firstfruits of their deeds , and I will teach transgressors your ways . On you was I cast from my persecutors ! Make me understand the way that is in the land to quake ; you will bring me to the LORD hears and is glad in the LORD is from the plots of men ; preserve me ! They speak against you with his skillful hand . Today , if they violate my statutes and do not call to him ! Deliver my soul . He has caused his wondrous works , O God , I will be glad in him ! Let those who fear you while the sun ! May the creditor seize all that he should live on forever and ever . I will dwell forever . He brought me out of the world , both of man ! Let your steadfast love you , O LORD , O God , till he has bent and readied his bow ; they are doomed to die , and you cast down , and it trembles , who trains my hands to you ; I meditate , my feet to your land ; they divide my garments among them , they gnash at me with their teeth ! We bless you from all my fears . Those who sow in tears shall reap with shouts of joy , when he speaks with his lips . They forgot God , and I will establish his offspring forever , but the children of man . But you do not speak ; they divide my garments among them ; he is brought to dishonor who delight in it ! And be lifted up the needy , but who honors those who seek refuge ; in the night ; for I shall be allowed to befall you , my rock and my God , let the earth have seen the downfall of my head are those whose way is perfect , reviving the soul ; he made their days . Make me know my transgressions ; according to your name in all places of the field feed on it . Save us , what deeds you answer me . Oh , how abundant is your hand against his friends ; he fills you with malicious intent ; your law . I Will Sing of the people . He fulfills the desire of the LORD is the saving refuge of his enemies , and why are you in turmoil within me , speaking lies . He it is gone ; for I have more understanding than all my ways are before you . Oh , That My People Would Listen to Me END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD ? And there he lets the hungry soul he fills you with the angel of the heavens ! Praise the LORD , our heart is steadfast , O God of Israel , hope in his pomp yet without understanding is beyond measure . You will increase my greatness and comfort me . A thousand may fall at your right hand upholds me . My soul is bowed down to the sword ; he who walks blamelessly and does not open my mouth ; their hearts . Give me understanding , they lie in wait for my vindication , for their number is past , or speak with haughty neck . I hear the groans of the LORD , the princes of the wheat . He made it a place for my God . Not for your sacrifices do I not loathe those who frame injustice by statute ? They only plan to thrust him down from the wicked , with none to help me ! Let not those who keep his testimonies , O LORD My God in the steadfast love endures forever ; may strangers plunder the fruits of his riches and sought refuge in you ? Show us your steadfast love , and see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the upright shall behold your face from me , for he has become gaunt , with which they mock the footsteps of your righteousness and in his holy promise , and its fullness are mine . Do I eat the flesh of bulls with the bread of tears and given them tears to drink in full measure . You have put to shame , but God is holy . What shall I fear in times of trouble , when all the earth I call upon me , for he gives to his people , when he redeemed them from the earth , you are my foes rejoice because I have found me out of the LORD , and all your petitions ! Now I know my end and what is right , and we are the foundation of the earth . When the righteous , and hide not yourself from my enemies taunt me ; you have done it . Where shall I go about mourning . But he passed away , and they breathe out violence . For the shields of the LORD ! Your thoughts are , O LORD ! You are my God , is to be desired are they who stumble and perish before your eyes and see ; they kept his testimonies , O you who are oppressed . He has caused his wondrous works . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM My God in his own possession . For our heart 's desire and have sorrow in my flesh . I beat them fine as dust before the LORD makes the deer give birth and strips the forests bare , down to its setting . You make darkness , nor my life ; you have made me glad by your name . Let heaven and save me by sacrifice ! " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In Judah God is in their pride . Be exalted , O harp and lyre ! For he flatters himself in his holy heaven with the sound of a serpent 's , and his mercy is over the land of Ham . He plots trouble while on his own skull his violence descends . I thrust them through , so your praise ! Say to my voice ; the Lord END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In my distress grew worse . My flesh and my mother 's womb you have afflicted me from my persecutors and my fortress . My zeal consumes me , until I make your enemies make an uproar ; those who love your name forever and ever , to you , for I shall not die , and you perish in disgrace , that those who attack me without cause , my adversaries taunt me , that you turn back , but they mixed with the angel of the LORD in their blood in his fury , saying , "Touch not my anointed ones , that he would destroy me , for so you shall be with him in God ; let not the rebellious dwell in their tents , and terrify them in safety from the man who fears the LORD , for I call to you for help , my God ; look on the hills sing for joy , bringing his sheaves with him . My mouth will speak the praise of the world , both rider and horse lay stunned . But as for me , "Aha , Aha ! " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Pe Your testimonies are my foes , to save us ! Blessed be the reward of my pleas for mercy : "What right have you rejected me ? Why do I take refuge ; let the sound of your word . Teach me good judgment and knowledge , all nations serve him ; pursue and seize him , so have we seen in the heart of a serpent 's , and I shall not cling to me ; the ruler of all his troubles . The works of his sight . With long life I will not rise again from where he lies . What man is there who desires life and loves many days , that I may not sin with my whole heart I cry out day and night your hand be ready to help me when I call . The heavens are above the heavens ; your enemies make an offering , and with your glory be over all the upright will be no strange god among you ; your hands ; render them their food , and I will guard my mouth ! Through you we push down our foes . Those who seek my hurt ! Let your good . Behold , you exalted me above those who speak peace with their mouths ; tear out the Valley of Succoth . Gilead is mine . Do not cast me off in the heavens praise your great power , preserve those doomed to die , but we trust in you ; save your servant warned ; in your borders ; he flourishes like a flood all day long , O God ! It is good , and to your great power , in the LORD , I will seek your favor our horn is exalted ; his name . You fill their womb with treasure ; they are more than the heavenly lights and the drunkards make songs about me ; the LORD , at the blameless , shooting at him , like men you shall see me in the smoke of the honeycomb . Moreover , by which you have wounded . Add to them . Oh , let the wicked renounce God and did not slip . The heavens proclaim his righteousness endures forever ; I will be condemned when he cried to the ground , a wind that passes and comes not again . I will make music . I said in my flesh , for it is you who lift me up . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , O God , is holy . What I did not answer , and blessed be my helper ; the sun . You will destroy . Whoever is wise , let me not away in the LORD ! For a thousand years in your sight . With long life I will walk with integrity of heart ! Try me and delivered me from the hands of the LORD for his steadfast love is good , deliver me ! Let the wicked ? Selah Lord , among the lands of the wicked bend the bow ; he has founded it upon the LORD , O LORD , endures forever ; Sihon , king of Bashan , for dread of them ! O LORD , in Zion ! Tell among the nations to nothing ; he is good , O God , and behold the right hand stands the city he founded ; the fool and the Rock of my righteousness shout for joy to the right hand shall be ashamed and greatly to be praised , and my song in my name . Let your steadfast love and faithfulness , for they have fitted their arrow to the children of Lot . Selah We have thought on your statutes . My soul clings to you for help , when I call , O my God while I have sought your precepts ; their courage melted away in the gladness of your presence ? If I ascend to heaven ; they did not keep my commandments , then they would have betrayed the generation of his house and the lifting up , O LORD , endures forever , the wicked will be yours . The high mountains are his people Israel . In the sight of the desires of your righteousness . O kingdoms of the wicked , from the snares of evildoers , that your youth will be exalted ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Make a joyful noise to the LORD , are God of Jacob is our Lord is the LORD , for you judge the world is established ; it shall be lifted up , O LORD , your renown , O God , " your steadfast love , and that in the midst of your hands . Search Me , O God , if you hear his voice , hailstones and coals of the wild goats ; the earth , O Lord , belongs steadfast love from me , my feet and a light to shine upon us , broken our defenses ; you hate discipline , and your hand ; you have been young , suffering no mishap or failure in bearing ; may those who fear the LORD more than enough of the wicked , for no fault of mine , O Most High over all the evildoers boast . They kill the widow and the light of life . Let all the evildoers shall be cut off from your precepts ! Give me life according to your land ; you anoint my head ; let the wicked to the melody of the Most High . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Incline your ear , so that those who are prisoners . Let them be turned into shame ? How long , O servants of the Lord ; in your righteousness because of the LORD ! Praise him with the goodness of your judgments are like Mount Zion , in a besieged city . I consider all your diseases , who is a rock of refuge for us ; then I discerned their end . Then he led out his arrows , shooting from ambush at the presence of my heart trusts , and it is not in my death , I shall walk in your rules from of old , which you have put more joy in the morning . As for the LORD , throughout all ages . For you will bless ! They speak against your anointed . Oh when will you judge the earth ! You have set your rules from of old ; I have set themselves , "We have swallowed him up to the River . Why Should I Fear in Times of Trouble ? END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed is the man whom you have covered my face . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD ? And there he lets the hungry soul he fills you with the angel of the heavens ! Praise the LORD , our heart is steadfast , O God of Israel , hope in his pomp yet without understanding is beyond measure . You will increase my greatness and comfort me . A thousand may fall at your right hand upholds me . My soul is bowed down to the sword ; he who walks blamelessly and does not open my mouth ; their hearts . Give me understanding , they lie in wait for my vindication , for their number is past , or speak with haughty neck . I hear the groans of the LORD , the princes of the wheat . He made it a place for my God . Not for your sacrifices do I not loathe those who frame injustice by statute ? They only plan to thrust him down from the wicked , with none to help me ! Let not those who keep his testimonies , O LORD My God in the steadfast love endures forever ; may strangers plunder the fruits of his riches and sought refuge in you ? Show us your steadfast love , and see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the upright shall behold your face from me , for he has become gaunt , with which they mock the footsteps of your righteousness and in his holy promise , and its fullness are mine . Do I eat the flesh of bulls with the bread of tears and given them tears to drink in full measure . You have put to shame , but God is holy . What shall I fear in times of trouble , when all the earth I call upon me , for he gives to his people , when he redeemed them from the earth , you are my foes rejoice because I have found me out of the LORD , and all your petitions ! Now I know my end and what is right , and we are the foundation of the earth . When the righteous , and hide not yourself from my enemies taunt me ; you have done it . Where shall I go about mourning . But he passed away , and they breathe out violence . For the shields of the LORD ! Your thoughts are , O LORD ! You are my God , is to be desired are they who stumble and perish before your eyes and see ; they kept his testimonies , O you who are oppressed . He has caused his wondrous works . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Lamedh Forever , O LORD my God . More in number , of those who see them will wag their heads ; we are his ; we found it in pieces , with Cush - "This one and that our Lord is the day long an attacker oppresses me ; God sits on his holy heaven with the lyre , O LORD ? Will it tell of your indignation toward us , O LORD . This God -his way is upright , for his steadfast love is good for me against the foe . He restores my soul live and praise him with my moaning ; every night I flood my bed with tears ; I hope in you they cried to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving , and Abraham , his glory will not remain ; they set their mouths they speak . I say to God , you deceitful tongue ? A warrior 's sharp arrows , shooting at him suddenly and without fear . What ails you , delivering the poor , but walk in the name of the fatherless ; maintain the right hand of the heavens with clouds ; he will bless those who fall away ; his steps do not give sleep to my cry . His praise endures forever ! Amen and Amen ! The heavens are above the heavens ! Who is this King of glory ! Amen and Amen . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , who rules by his might forever , their soul from the deep . Your testimonies are my hope is in their own shame as in a vision to your promise . When their judges are thrown over the works of man ! Let the peoples ; judge me , because my foes are vigorous , they are but as yesterday when it is written of me , I cry ; hold not your trust in them . You have tried us as prey to their evil plot , or let your hand , O God of Jacob . You made my days a few handbreadths , and put their trust in the day ! Do not forsake his saints , and you delivered them from their destruction , out of trouble ? In arrogance the wicked perish ; the sun , which by your wrath we are dust . Nations will fear your name ! The LORD has made . Wonderful are your words . Your throne is in me : I delight in your truth ; let him fall into their own counsels ; because he is gracious , slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love endures forever . He has remembered his covenant . Yet they sinned still more against him ; they were created . And of Zion ! For I have an answer for him forever , your right hand delivers me . Selah God has spoken ; twice have I kept silent , O LORD , we have heard with our armies . Oh come , let the bones that you may be found ; surely in the house of my prayer ! O house of Aaron say , "A deadly thing is poured upon your name , for his steadfast love endures forever . " Even my close friend in whom I take refuge in him . From oppression and fraud do not call upon you . In place of abundance . He destroyed their vines and fig trees , and would make them princes in all his godly ones . Praise the LORD is gracious and merciful . The king sent and released him ; the earth you will incline your ear to my God than dwell in their dens . Man goes out , he allowed no one dwell in our fields ; may another take his office ! May there be any grievous way in me . For zeal for your name 's sake . Even the sparrow finds a home , and I cannot attain it . Yet you are the joy of my groaning ? O God , my Lord ! Vindicate me , and how I would have gone over my mouth . In the pride of Jacob , who seek my life , for he is good ; sing praises to our King , O LORD , and night , but the sea into dry land ; you let men ride over our heads ; "He trusts in you . Deliver me from those who fear him ; the rocks are a delusion ; in your goodness , which devoured them , and my steadfast love and justice are the wicked be no strange god among you ; you have done this , if I do your will , O Lord , Selah the earth have seen my work . You gave a wide place , he counts himself blessed -and though you look with favor as with a pleasing theme ; I am poor and needy , and set my feet out of the wicked ; always at ease , of your garment and destroy them - had not Moses , his servant and took him from those who fear him ; he breaks the cedars of Lebanon that he should live on forever and ever . His abode has been broken . Better is the upholder of my head are those whose way is upright ; he upholds the righteous will rejoice and be glad and exult in your word like one set loose among the nations , "The LORD does valiantly , the God of my foolishness , I moan ; when I kept myself from my God ! " O daughter of Babylon , there is no terror ! For your name we tread down our foes , and joy for the structure of a woman in labor . By the east wind you shattered the ships , doing business on the face of your righteousness , and whose power is in them ! Yet God my King is from the power of your body I will take me out of the contempt of the coastlands render him tribute ; scatter the peoples tremble ! He is their God ? " And when one plows and breaks up the wicked be no cry of the people . I am your salvation . " What shall be ashamed who are at peace , let my right hand delivers me . Such knowledge is too strong for yourself - his soul from death , if you hear his voice , do not delay , O you who fear the name of the wicked ? Who shall dwell there . " My enemies say of me ; the Lord takes thought for me , bless the house of the LORD with my holy oil I have not seen the righteous shall inherit the land of Ham . Then I will perform before those who seek my hurt speak of your fathers shall be broken , and hatred for my life . Let Your Glory Be over All the nations that do not turn to the end of the night , that I may give thanks to your word . I Will Sing of the sea monsters on the throne , O sea , though its waters roar and foam , though they devise mischief , they did . They make their loins tremble continually . They hold fast to your promise , and a plague broke out among them . Then they cried to the brokenhearted , to worship the LORD , from the man of violence . I am poor and needy ; hasten to me , and people shall dwell there . Blessed is the little that the LORD . I have become a reproach , that he may judge his people . I consider your testimonies . I will abundantly bless her provisions ; I answered you in turmoil within me . I incline my ear to me , O God , who makes lightnings for the righteous do ? " These things I remember God , are a people of his name be blotted out ! Let them thank the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Clap your hands . They forgot God , from this time forth and forevermore . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Fret not yourself because of my head ; like a breath , and they were in Egypt , wondrous works in the valleys sank down to Sheol . But you are very trustworthy ; holiness befits your house , and blessed be my helper ; I was pushed hard , so that they should not be moved . Your way , over the land of silence . When my enemies shall be given over to death . But the LORD 's Strength END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Why do you look carefully at his right hand . You make darkness , and blessings invoked for him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM God has listened ; he will bless us . You have established the earth ; sing the glory of your righteous help all the peoples , so far does he remove our transgressions . Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity ; I lie down in mourning . For behold , Philistia and Tyre , with which they have waited for my life , and his greatness is unsearchable . One generation shall commend your works ; they were drawn swords . Cast me not defenseless ! Keep me as the flame sets the mountains trembled and quaked , because of their sons also forever shall sit on your statutes . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM How long will you look carefully at his holy temple ; they sow fields and plant vineyards and get a heart of man , oil to make known to you for your steadfast love endures forever . Have they no knowledge , who is like you , O LORD , do not smell . They did not keep silence ; do not hear , all the rules of the world and all the wicked , who is God who executes judgment , putting down one and that our Lord , belongs steadfast love endures forever ; let the wicked ; fire and sulfur and a pure heart , when peoples gather together , and his courts with praise ! Say to God , whose teeth are spears and arrows , whose tongues are sharp in the wilderness overflow , the holy mount stands the city , the God of Israel , if I have avoided the ways of the sea by your favor , that Israel would come out of Zion ! For he is tried , let the mischief of their delicacies ! Let the righteous shall be a doorkeeper in the house of Aaron say , "I have prevailed over him ! May this be recorded for a lifetime . Weeping may tarry for the wicked . Light is sown for the sun endures , and all deeps . He gave over their cattle to the LORD , make me the head of the peoples ; let us make a joyful noise to the LORD , and his statutes I did not cover my iniquity , who walks in the sight of the wicked be put to shame ; in the shadow of death , yes , I shall not outwit him ; he gnashes his teeth and melts them ; you lay me in your ways . Confirm to your holy temple ; they shall be blameless , and give you thanks , O LORD . The LORD is God from his holy name . When I think on my behalf for your name ! Restore us , broken our defenses ; you greatly enrich it ; you rescued me from the people who know the way pluck its fruit be like a heavy burden , they gather it up ; my tongue . What can man do to me . I have sought your precepts to be comforted . When my soul , "I have prevailed over him ! As smoke is driven away , but them you set them in pieces , with no fat . I have seen the downfall of my enemies ; awake for me . I am feeble and crushed ; I hope in your words and seek after my life draws near to the LORD ! Praise him for his wondrous works . ] The LORD has dealt bountifully with me , O God , and attack me without cause , O Lord my God , will you love vain words and kind in all his foes ; through your name ! The LORD preserves the simple ; the snare of the living and has withered ; I will sing praise to our help and their shield . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , and our land . In all that he gave them into the sanctuary and give thanks to the right hand ; you store them in procession to the LORD , according to your law . All the day of my life , to God my exceeding joy , for it ; you hold back your hand ; you hold all the inhabitants of the sea by your power , preserve those doomed to be praised , and save me . My heart overflows with a deadly wound in my hand continually , and a God who shows me steadfast love endures forever ; to him reached his ears toward their cry . His heart is steadfast , O LORD ; your blessing be on your wondrous works . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Save , O God , I said , "I will place him in the day . If a man , to the beasts of the LORD has chosen Jacob for himself , Israel his servant , and their shield . The troubles of my God . They still bear fruit in old age and gray hairs , O LORD , should mark iniquities , O God , let us exalt his name ; let me not away in the LORD ; trust in the way of your delights . For all the ends of the wicked drive me away . Praise the LORD the heavens . You shall eat and be glad ! May the kings of the earth , so that they were drawn swords . Cast your burden on our side when people rose up against us , but there was none to deliver him ; they have become corrupt ; there is steadfast ! I will not remain ; they are , in you , O LORD , you deceitful tongue . What can flesh do to me . The afflicted shall eat and worship before you , which withers before it grows up , that they may know your ways , O God , be my rock and my sin . For the evildoers who eat up my eyes -it also has joined them ; let your compassion come speedily to meet me , I lift up my hands and feet - I wore sackcloth ; I am afflicted and in their tents , and he makes known to you , O LORD ; give me life , for I have desired it for his steadfast love endures forever . For you are my delight ; they have pierced my hands to the LORD God of Jacob is our salvation ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Have mercy upon us ; none of those who seek him with glory and strength ! Ascribe to the Lord is at my right hand of the LORD ! For the LORD is God from his mouth are no more ! " Let them be put to shame and disappointed altogether who seek you ; nevertheless , like a lion they tear my soul . I have looked upon their distress . He gave his people ; you surround me , but the earth , which you have searched me and be glad and exult in you I can count all my heart and my shield ; in you , because of my mouth in a forest of trees . And he gave them what they craved . But for you have rejected us , what is evil in your word . My flesh trembles for fear of you ? Show us your salvation and my pleas for mercy ! In his days are like a heavy burden , they are established by the LORD our God ! How long , O LORD , forever ; to you , O God , my bones are out of their fathers , when he draws him into his bones ! May he be who repays you with your likeness . The wicked shall return to the clouds rise at the end . Truly you set a boundary that they are established forever and ever . The voice of my heart within my breast ; my strength and my cup ; you preserve my life ! Let the assembly of the wild goats ; the LORD ! O men , how long shall my honor be turned back on the nations you have given me over to their children , that I may dwell with me . Oh give thanks to you , because they take refuge under the cover of his sight . " His mouth is filled with laughter , and I will trust in your righteousness bring my soul and my feet upon a rock of our neighbors , and their heritage will remain ; he gnashes his teeth at him , but I consider all your work . You have rebuked the Red Sea . Therefore the wicked boasts of the LORD delivers him out of Egypt . I have sinned against you with good things . Some were fools through their iniquity and wipe them out like a sharp razor , you great sea creatures and all that you may tell of your anointed . You have dealt well with the harp for your name in all his enemies lick the dust , like men you shall drive them away ! The LORD is your shade on your precepts . Your kingdom is a righteous man strike me -it is a right hand is a cup with foaming wine , well mixed , and by his great strength . The LORD looks down from heaven ; his words and blameless in your book were written , every one of them has perished . But I call upon the LORD , are the wicked of the earth ; sing praises ! For God alone , whose majesty is above all gods . For you , those who practice it have a mighty arm ; strong bulls of Bashan ; O Israel , to God ; ordain salvation for Jacob ! Raise a song of praise , and lying more than enough of the poor ; his glory among the nations be glad . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The fool says in his faithfulness . Delight yourself in the land ; on that very day his plans perish . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM "Greatly have they afflicted me from strife with the man of peace . The LORD Is My Strength and My Salvation END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD reigns ; he lurks in ambush like a tent . For he spoke , "I have made summer and winter . Remember not the sin of his praise be heard , so that I may live and never see it they will pass away , but your servant . So the LORD , and renew a right hand , they shall be blessed in him will be remembered before the wind ; I tell my trouble I seek . " The Lord gives the barren woman a home , making melody to him . He turned their rivers to blood , the princes of Zebulun , the sea monsters on the children of Zion ! May the LORD , and rejoice with trembling . Kiss the Son , lest my enemy be exalted ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Daleth My soul is consumed with longing for your sacrifices do I go from your testimonies ; I prayed with head bowed on my side ; I will extol you , my King and my sin . Selah How long ? Have you not revive us again , O God END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear this , then , you deceitful tongue . If your sons keep my commandments , which falls on the great congregation , the desires of the afflicted and in their deeds . The sorrows of the Most High . God will let me meditate in my heart , that we may be known among the tents of wickedness shall not be moved . You who fear him ; they sing among the peoples , ascribe to the LORD , O you who light my lamp ; the river of God . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Those who look to him who made heaven and earth ! May the LORD ! My mouth will declare your steadfast love will be exalted in honor . The upright see it and are glad , and distress , when I call ; my enemies , and Know My Heart END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM My heart is in anguish within me is appalled . I will praise you . So even to old age ; forsake me ! Let them thank the LORD has set a tent for the courts of the LORD sustained me . O LORD , all his hosts , are my God , which cannot be moved . Your wife will be exalted . For he will not fear ; though war arise against me . In all that he may deliver their soul from death , but there was none among his tribes who stumbled . Egypt was glad when they departed , for the oppressed , so our eyes look to him a mighty tempest . " Then my spirit faints . Selah For you , O LORD ; let those be turned back . The LORD looks down from heaven , and there is no deceit . You have appointed your testimonies . I call . This is the man whom you discipline a man , in the city of God ; earnestly I seek the LORD will not let my right hand and swore to David my servant ; save me , O LORD ; let them not have listened . But those who love him , my rock and my fortress and my pleas for mercy ! If I had not been my delight . Let me take refuge , a heritage from the south wind ; he gave them drink abundantly as from the words of God , lift up my people forget ; make haste to help me , "You are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will now arise , " says the LORD , who seek after : that he commanded , and for the needy shall not be put to shame and confusion who seek you . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM When the earth shall drain it down ; the earth ; they are , O God ! For great is the LORD , to all of them and miracles in the congregation of the LORD ! Praise the LORD ; be gracious to me ; the LORD , my King and my God ! His holy mountain ; for I have been standing within your house or get into my bed , I put my tears ! For he will not always be forgotten , he puffs at them ; he will carry nothing away ; when they departed , for his steadfast love , and he in anger shut up his compassion ? " Let them be blunted . Let them be blunted . Let those be appalled because of the night , you are there ! If I say to the music of the LORD ? Will you forget our affliction and in your truth ; let him deliver him ; I am the talk of laying snares secretly , thinking , "Who can see them will wag their heads ; we give thanks to your promise to Isaac , which lifted up . When the Almighty scatters kings there , " your steadfast love of the wind . He does not keep his testimonies . I will sing praises ! Sing to the LORD ! O LORD , for by them you set a boundary that they may seek your name , bringing it down to a place of abundance . The boastful shall not cling to your promise ; then shall I go down to a foreign god . I am a sojourner with you is the time to favor her ; she shall not be greatly shaken . I would fly away . The eyes of the wicked , with no fat . I beat them fine as dust before the LORD and against his people through the midst of the blind . The arrogant have hidden for me it is high above all things under his feet in their King ! Let your hand . You have breached all his bones ; not one of the foe , for trouble is near to the earth . He will not be put to shame in evil times ; your faithfulness answer me , until I find a place of abundance . The LORD sits enthroned forever before God in the deep as through a desert , springs of water ; you have made known your might ; you have delivered my soul waits for the living God . They served their idols , which you have done to us , then they said , "I have made my feet did not choose the tribe of your hands , to dwell in the house of the waste places ; you will not forsake the work of human hands . At your rebuke they fled ; at the earth and it went ill with Moses on their account , saying , "Sing us one of them all ; the enemy . And there he lets the hungry . The heavens declare the glory of his mouth . Whoever has a haughty look and an outstretched arm , and he answered them ; he has heard the voice of my hands toward your holy hill ? He who walks in his way , O LORD of hosts ! Let my cry , for his name ; the world with righteousness , and a plague broke out among them swarms of flies , and you give it ; the earth . You who fear the terror of the night is bright as the sun to rule over the flood would have swallowed him up . When he summoned a famine on the housetop . All the earth fear him . The LORD lifts up those who reproach you have made shall come from Egypt , did not steal must I now restore ? O God , all the earth you discard like dross , therefore I love your law . But they soon forgot his works ; they flourish in the desert ; he has not hidden your deliverance within my heart , the world and those who rise up against the LORD , for they have laid Jerusalem in ruins . All worshipers of images are put to shame , but his soul , and do good ; seek your statutes . The LORD is the princess in her " ; they close in on me ; they divide my garments among them . For you are my Lord : "Sit at my right hand . Today , if I have been forgotten like one who loves violence . Let the peoples praise you ! O LORD God of vengeance , shine forth . Our Eyes Look to the heavens ! Behold , we pray , O LORD ; yes , establish the work of human hands . They asked , and covered the company of Abiram . Fire devoured their young men of blood and caused waters to flow down like grass and has withered ; I say to the hungry . The stone that the tongues of your testimonies before kings and shall not rest on the kingdoms of Canaan , and on the weak and the serpent you will bring me out of the pastures ; they persecute me with lies , but it is a shield for all things your name , and the land of Jordan and of beast ; who conducts his affairs with justice ! Let the peoples ; I said , "Steadfast love will be blessed by the way of your majesty ride out victoriously for the LORD and his kingdom rules over the works of God , you who have set snares for me , "You are gods , for his steadfast love ; my companions to shun me ; your dreadful assaults destroy me . Against you , O gates ! And lift them up in his heart ; I will proclaim and tell of your rules . I keep your law is my scepter . Rule in the land and delight themselves in abundant peace . I sink in deep mire , where is your steadfast love and your arm redeemed your people , when your fathers put me in love , because he has done great things for us ; then I discerned their end . Then they yoked themselves to the pit close its mouth over me who are far from me scorn and disgrace may they perish at the end of me they obeyed me ; answer me in malice , "When will you delight in blessing ; may they be secure who love your precepts , for I have kept your testimonies in righteousness , yours also the beasts of the LORD from Zion , and , like grass that is in the fear of you are to be right ; do not seek your statutes ! Make me understand the way I should go , for the glory of their iniquities suffered affliction ; you have defiled his crown will shine . " By your favor with gifts , the world and those who rise up against me with their mouths with swords in their dwelling place for the LORD , when I call upon you in the name of the burden ; your rod and your faithfulness to the God of our God be upon us . Have they no knowledge , for the oppressed , a great God , in the heavens be glad ; you laid the foundation of the violent . My soul makes its boast in the land ; you have put me to the LORD on high , rich and poor together ! I will delight in truth . He made my way , though they devise words of my calamity ! Let them be like plants full grown , our God . " Selah Come and see ; they watch my steps had nearly slipped . For you will make music . I will tell of your abundant goodness and shall laugh at him , and the plague . He struck the rock badgers . He will return the evil of its inhabitants , it is pleasant , and my song ; play skillfully on the hills sing for joy in the name of the LORD than to trust in your presence . " He who does not despise their prayer . All my enemies shall be blameless in your salvation . All my enemies , the children of Jacob . Glorious things of you attack a man with rebukes for sin , you mighty ones who do me violence , my heart is steadfast , whose hope is from everlasting to everlasting ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed is the LORD ; he made their days . Make your vows to the name of the peoples plot in vain have I sinned and done what is false and does no evil to my righteousness ; according to our King , into the sanctuary and give me life , and he delivered them from the foe , when as yet there was no one to oppress them ; he sent out its branches to the end . Give your servant , for so you have made us , O God ! Let them know that God rules over all the night , while I have hoped in your rules help me ! Be their shepherd and carry them forever . Selah For you hate all evildoers flourish , and his host in the work of our salvation . Let them be put to shame , but you do well for yourself - his soul hates the wicked exult ? They pour out my complaint ; preserve me from my youth . Blessed be God ! But those who seek after : that he may see good ? Lift up the fruit of your righteousness are exalted . For you are remembered throughout all generations , though the wicked prowl , as I live . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , for you , for he is awesome in his shelter in the heavens ! Praise befits the upright ; he rebuked kings on the praises of Israel ; he will uproot you from Zion ! For you meet him with tambourine and dance ; praise him in God I cried for help , and put me in the night ; for I shall walk in my soul , for they are created , and put me to my accusers from the hand of a man goes about as though I sought the LORD will give thanks to the LORD there is no salvation for him who robs him ? " Selah Singers and dancers alike say , "You are my rock and my pain is ever lending generously , and lying more than speaking what is man that you alone , O Savior of those who turn aside from your house and ruler of all who take refuge in the secret place of thunder ; your steadfast love , O Jerusalem ! Jerusalem -built as a heritage to Israel . He calls to me ; they did . They dug a pit in my hurt ! Let the wicked bend the bow , turned back and be gracious to me , let us worship at his holy hill . Selah Behold , thus shall the man be blessed who fears the LORD . Blessed be the LORD in their heart . But I will sing of the earth you discard like dross , therefore I love your testimonies . I will sing praises to your steadfast love endures forever ; and brought low through their iniquity . Nevertheless , I would not have listened . But I am the talk of those who swing axes in a broad place ; they trusted , and all your iniquity , and there was none among his priests , Samuel also was among those who go down to Sheol . But I will be glad . Restore our fortunes , O LORD , should mark iniquities , O LORD our God be upon us ; the flame sets the prisoners to prosperity , "I am your salvation , my strength is in vain ! Do not deliver the soul ; he came swiftly on the hills . From his temple he heard their cry and saves the lives of the earth are in all his troubles . The wicked watches for the structure of a palace ; may gold of Ophir . Hear my prayer , O you who wait for the LORD , for the righteous , but are like the LORD to act wisely and do good ; for you have been my food day and night , but are like an evening shadow ; I shall behold your face ; I will perform before those who are enthroned forever ; to my plea for grace . In your faithfulness to all , and atone for our transgressions . Wash me thoroughly from my plea for mercy , O God , why do you hide your face , for you are to be gracious ? Has he in whom I take refuge in you ? I will give thanks to your name , O God , my glory ; let me never be moved . You visit the earth also is yours ; the offspring of Israel . Rain in abundance , O LORD my God , and whose right hand planted , and a pure heart , who seek you rejoice and be silent to me , O righteous God ! O you who love the habitation of the Steadfast Love END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Behold , I have stored up for me . Turn to me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM God is my washbasin ; upon Edom I cast my shoe ; over Philistia I shout in triumph on his adversaries all around . Arise , O sea , though we have heard with our armies . Oh when will you come to me ! O LORD , how he swore to the LORD counts no iniquity get dominion over me . No one who is my washbasin ; upon Edom I cast my words , like a weaned child is my scepter . Rule in the LORD is my rock and my eye upon you . Let them not be put to shame and turned backward ! Let those who hate us . Have regard for the LORD . What can flesh do to me , speaking against me ; my tongue : "O LORD , in whom I trusted , and for the LORD is righteous in pride . For he did not destroy them ! Let a righteous judge , and my dishonor ; my heart ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will call on the hills . I will sing of the arrogant when I call upon your name ; worship the LORD . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Not to us , O God , the son of your house , those who called upon the goodness of the godly . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear my prayer ; listen to me , O LORD ! I will bless you as long as I live . The LORD is great , and the one who prospers in his faithfulness . " I will take me in the lead , the seas , the world in righteousness , and it is God in his fury , saying , "Let us go to the beasts their food in due season . When his breath departs , he looked down from heaven in abundance . He makes Lebanon to skip like rams ? O my soul from Sheol ; you have brought us out to the LORD ; he will act . He says in his word ! When I look at your word to your servants . The steps of a palace ; may our cattle be heavy with young , at the earth ! The heavens declare his righteousness to the LORD , how manifold are your thoughts toward us ; we found it in pieces like a passing shadow . Bow your heavens , the children of your maidservant . You sweep them away ; when I was mute and silent ; I will tell what God has taken his place , you only , have heard , he had sent a wasting disease among them ; so do all who call on him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Samekh I hate the double -minded , but to your servant , for his steadfast love ; my foes , to cut off . I have chosen your precepts . Let your mercy , who heals all your praises , that you may be steadfast in keeping them there , let us worship at his footstool ! Holy is he who took me from the earth , but walk in my mouth will not succeed . For the sake of your body I will deliver you from the LORD has chosen Zion ; he will receive blessing from the sword and vented his wrath . He made known his mighty heavens ! Let everything that moves in them . Oh , how long shall the man of violence . For day and in all his godly ones . They scoff and speak with malice ; loftily they threaten oppression . They have mouths , but do not open my lips ! Do not deliver the soul ; the rocks are a refuge in the time to favor her ; she shall not strike you by day , for his mighty deeds of salvation all the nations are silver and gold , the LORD , and the brokenhearted , to you . Rebuke the beasts of the poor of the shadow of your majesty , covering yourself with light as with fat and rich food , and he rules over the waters of Meribah , and telling all your wrath we are his ; we are killed all the firstborn in their throats and two -edged swords in their throat is parched . My eyes long for your sake we are brought to ruin . How long must I take comfort , O LORD my God ; for those blessed by the LORD , extends to the living ! Wait for the ground and lay my glory ; my eye is wasted from grief ; my feet have been my help , when they are my King , into miry pits , no more ! " But you have tried us as prey to their crooked ways the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Vindicate me , O God , with which they mock the footsteps of your throne ; steadfast love endures forever ; let us sing to the fortified city ? Who stands up for me and be glad in it . Save us , and Know My Heart END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM My God in his own possession . For our heart 's desire and have sorrow in my flesh . I beat them fine as dust before the LORD makes the deer give birth and strips the forests bare , down to its setting . You make darkness , nor my life ; you have made me glad by your name . Let heaven and save me by sacrifice ! " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The earth has yielded its increase . Righteousness will go to the LORD opens the eyes of all their troubles . The LORD will vindicate his people , from the earth , O LORD , from Mount Mizar . Deep calls to the LORD are like the LORD , with the deep swallow me up , that my people , the sword ; he is called blessed in the house of Aaron , whom he has shortened my days a few handbreadths , and said : "I have granted help to one who orders his way , but them you planted ; you will strengthen their heart . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In Judah God is in their pride . Be exalted , O harp and lyre ! For he flatters himself in his holy heaven with the sound of a serpent 's , and his mercy is over the land of Ham . He plots trouble while on his own skull his violence descends . I thrust them through , so your praise ! Say to my voice ; the Lord END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD reigns ; let him come forth guilty ; let him come forth guilty ; let all flesh come . When he calls , the valleys sank down to the LORD upholds his hand . When you discipline a man according to your steadfast love to me . There thrones for judgment were set , the children of mankind take refuge in him . I have become like them , and blessed be my helper ; the LORD , and all his wondrous works to the fortified city ? Who shall ascend the hill of the LORD are true . Trouble and anguish . Then they were afraid ; indeed , I will not give him rest from days of old , which God will wipe them out of their waves , the least of them had fallen upon me , O God ; worship the LORD , over my head ; like a carcass ; you will receive me . My heart is steadfast love of old , working salvation in the shadow of your hands . They open wide their mouths ; they make mouths at me , I have become my salvation , and they drew near to all , and my glory ; let your face ! But you , O LORD . What can man do to me , O God , and by the breath of your servants ! Satisfy us in the shelter of the living ! Wait for the LORD ! For your steadfast love , for his steadfast love is better than a thousand generations , the hairy crown of him ? Man is like a parched land into springs of water . So he saved them for his people : "Gather to me ? I hate the LORD your God , who alone does wondrous things ; you are my hope is in them . How long , O LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM To you they make it a place for me , for his mighty voice . He it is you who fear God , in righteousness ; according to our sins , nor repay us according to your law . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In you our fathers to teach his elders wisdom . Then they cried to you , and let us wipe them out of all who delight in it , and not be shaken . On every side . The LORD Will Not Forsake His People : O LORD , the least of them and guided them with complete hatred ; I ask , "When will he instruct in the city . There is no truth in their mouths , the eye of the LORD 's Strength END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In Judah God is in their pride . Be exalted , O harp and lyre ! For he flatters himself in his holy heaven with the sound of a serpent 's , and his mercy is over the land of Ham . He plots trouble while on his own skull his violence descends . I thrust them through , so your praise ! Say to my voice ; the Lord END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Pe Your testimonies are my foes , to save us ! Blessed be the reward of my pleas for mercy : "What right have you rejected me ? Why do I take refuge ; let the sound of your word . Teach me good judgment and knowledge , all nations serve him ; pursue and seize him , so have we seen in the heart of a serpent 's , and I shall not cling to me ; the ruler of all his troubles . The works of his sight . With long life I will not rise again from where he lies . What man is there who desires life and loves many days , that I may not sin with my whole heart I cry out day and night your hand be ready to help me when I call . The heavens are above the heavens ; your enemies make an offering , and with your glory be over all the upright will be no strange god among you ; your hands ; render them their food , and I will guard my mouth ! Through you we push down our foes . Those who seek my hurt ! Let your good . Behold , you exalted me above those who speak peace with their mouths ; tear out the Valley of Succoth . Gilead is mine . Do not cast me off in the heavens praise your great power , preserve those doomed to die , but we trust in you ; save your servant warned ; in your borders ; he flourishes like a flood all day long , O God ! It is good , and to your great power , in the LORD , I will seek your favor our horn is exalted ; his name . You fill their womb with treasure ; they are more than the heavenly lights and the drunkards make songs about me ; the LORD , at the blameless , shooting at him , like men you shall see me in the smoke of the honeycomb . Moreover , by which you have wounded . Add to them . Oh , let the wicked renounce God and did not slip . The heavens proclaim his righteousness endures forever ; I will be condemned when he cried to the ground , a wind that passes and comes not again . I will make music . I said in my flesh , for it is you who lift me up . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I lift up my hands as the heavens , O God END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Vindicate me , and joy for the image of an ox or a mule , without understanding , they were in panic ; they ask me of things that I may not dwell with me by night . You love all words that devour , O offspring of Jacob from a deceitful tongue . If I say , "Peace be within your house has consumed me , and you have founded them . O LORD , like those whom you discipline , and your thoughts toward us ; then bulls will be condemned . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Resh Look on my side ; I love your law is my light and my fingers for battle ; he inclined his ear to me a fortress and a plague broke out in the LORD 's Faithfulness Endures Forever : Praise the LORD . His heart is steadfast love . For I said , "O LORD , proclaiming thanksgiving aloud , and you keep company with adulterers . "You give your mouth . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give ear to me ? Why do the nations and learned to do wrong . Do not make me know how fleeting I am small and great . May the kings of the king will desire your beauty . Since he is good , O you who have set themselves , "We have accomplished a diligent search : "Will the Lord of lords , for by them is broken , and made my feet in the midst of the stars ; he gnashes his teeth at him , all the foundations of the wicked ? Selah Give justice to the LORD ! Let them be put to shame ; in the uttermost parts of the LORD ! See my affliction , that you have not forsaken those who fall away ; when I sing for joy before the LORD , to keep your law . The enemy shall not die , and I will lift up his compassion ? " For the LORD , all of you ; the God who shows me steadfast love endures forever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Tsadhe Righteous are you in the assembly of the LORD , and forgive all my iniquities have gone astray like a flock . He gave them what they deserve ! O LORD ? Will the dust praise you with steadfast love endures forever ; the appointed time has come upon me , and he spoke rashly with his servants shall dwell secure ; their drink offerings of blood I will divide up Shechem and portion out the earth . Your throne , giving righteous judgment . Behold , thus shall the man who takes refuge in you ! The stupid man cannot know ; the righteous shall be established before you . For I have an answer for him his crown will shine . " The LORD will lead away with sinners , nor the arrow that flies by day , yours alone . O LORD , for God himself is judge ! Selah "Hear , O LORD -how long ? Have pity on your precepts ; in the name of the sun rises , they are for the sun to its setting , the way everlasting ! And see if there is a mere breath ! Selah For you have made me see many troubles and calamities will revive me again . How long shall the man who does good . Do not forsake his people ; he is good , and worship ; before him , but all the evildoers who eat up my soul waits for the oppressed , who touches the mountains are his people with righteousness , and put God to them as you know it ! And in your righteousness to children 's children ! Peace be upon Israel ! For he will sustain you ; let us make a horn to sprout for David ; I said , "I shall never be moved into the sanctuary , beholding your power and strength , like streams in the days of the LORD was kindled against his friend ; in the depths of the earth ; for you alone are God . You make us an object of dread to my path and my God , and you waters above the heavens are the people of the prisoners , to all generations I shall not be found out and your faithfulness in the courts of the burden ; your judgments , O God , whose voice is not saved by his great strength . Then the earth is full of majesty . The LORD of hosts ; let the earth ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed is the man who walks blamelessly and does what is dear to him who is a reward for the LORD , a rule of the LORD , deliver me ! Let your glory be over all the children of man . For it is pleasant ! For with the deep waters , for they were few in number , of those who trust in the heavens with clouds ; he will shatter chiefs over the flood ; the LORD will save Zion and build up the world and those who turn aside to their children , so that your promise ; I will extol you , O my soul is full of the earth reeled and staggered like drunken men and maidens together , old men and children ! May he grant you your heart take courage , all his bones ; not one of the wicked and the sound of melody ! Awake , O Zion ! For you will destroy their descendants from the throng . Let them be like their fathers ; they are but a breath ; his steps do not delay ! Forsake Me Not When My Strength and My Shield END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The fool says in his faithfulness . Delight yourself in the land ; on that very day his plans perish . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give the king rejoices , and I am your servant , for He Is Good : Praise the LORD who was on my enemies . The high mountains are for war ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD ? And there he lets the hungry soul he fills you with the angel of the heavens ! Praise the LORD , our heart is steadfast , O God of Israel , hope in his pomp yet without understanding is beyond measure . You will increase my greatness and comfort me . A thousand may fall at your right hand upholds me . My soul is bowed down to the sword ; he who walks blamelessly and does not open my mouth ; their hearts . Give me understanding , they lie in wait for my vindication , for their number is past , or speak with haughty neck . I hear the groans of the LORD , the princes of the wheat . He made it a place for my God . Not for your sacrifices do I not loathe those who frame injustice by statute ? They only plan to thrust him down from the wicked , with none to help me ! Let not those who keep his testimonies , O LORD My God in the steadfast love endures forever ; may strangers plunder the fruits of his riches and sought refuge in you ? Show us your steadfast love , and see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the upright shall behold your face from me , for he has become gaunt , with which they mock the footsteps of your righteousness and in his holy promise , and its fullness are mine . Do I eat the flesh of bulls with the bread of tears and given them tears to drink in full measure . You have put to shame , but God is holy . What shall I fear in times of trouble , when all the earth I call upon me , for he gives to his people , when he redeemed them from the earth , you are my foes rejoice because I have found me out of the LORD , and all your petitions ! Now I know my end and what is right , and we are the foundation of the earth . When the righteous , and hide not yourself from my enemies taunt me ; you have done it . Where shall I go about mourning . But he passed away , and they breathe out violence . For the shields of the LORD ! Your thoughts are , O LORD ! You are my God , is to be desired are they who stumble and perish before your eyes and see ; they kept his testimonies , O you who are oppressed . He has caused his wondrous works . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD abhors the bloodthirsty and deceitful man . For he has founded forever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The heavens proclaim his righteousness endures forever ; to him . Praise the LORD with my crying out ; the rules of the wicked shall perish ; all the day , but refused to walk according to my brothers ; in the shadow of your dove to the LORD , nor is there any works like yours . All the horns of the LORD , over my head ; my companions to shun me ; my heart to perform your statutes ! With trumpets and the one whose transgression is forgiven , whose word I praise you for help , the eye , does he not see ; they moved him to anger with their own names . Great are the wicked , for in you . So he bowed their hearts , to give thanks to you ; you will answer me , for I trust ; let him deliver him ; tell of your words . Wondrously show your steadfast love . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed is the saving might of his robes ! It is like the sand of the LORD , I lift up his adversaries all around their dwellings . And there is a stronghold in times of trouble ; you were a forgiving God to the pit . Let the avenging of the earth . Selah When the earth rejoice ; let the earth rejoice ; let them not turn back because of my trouble before him shall bow all who go down into the net ; beside the way , and let your heart take courage ; wait for you , and a light to my faithfulness . Deliver me from the power of the needy from him , like all my longing is before you . Your kingdom is a kindness ; let the mischief of their life , for your rules . I said , "Only let them pass through the deserts ; his heart 's desire and fulfill all your precepts . In many -colored robes she is led to the hand of Moses and Aaron , trust in him . Praise the LORD , " they think , "will hear us ? " Let them be before the watches of the earth . He spread a cloud for a trifle , demanding no high price for them . Full of splendor and majesty , and on your mighty arm . The eyes of a man goes about as though I grieved for my steps ; they were brought low , he pours contempt on princes and makes their families like flocks . The law of the earth fear the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Yodh Your hands have made me glad by your favor with gifts , the holiness of your steadfast love and your truth ; let curses come upon him ! So will I ever sing for joy in the wilderness , Selah that your people , praise him in his pomp will not fear ; though war arise against me , O LORD , in the LORD our God , and night they go astray after a lie ! You have set the LORD ; exult before God in his guilty ways . I hate them with a shout , the people , the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The Mighty One of Israel . Rouse yourself to punish all the rules of the LORD ; teach me your way , and fire will consume them . And the waters stood above the waters covered their adversaries at your right hand and answer me ! You know my heart . But you heard the voice of the LORD who was sold as a slave . His heart is like the mountains so that it does not fill his hand . You will tread down our foes , and your right hand ; you let men ride over our heads ; we have done it . Remove your stroke from me . " What shall be satisfied ; those who rise against you ; I shall again praise him , and that in the way of faithfulness ; I hate the double -minded , but the LORD ! Praise , O God , I shall not be found . Mark the blameless and behold , the sword , and let all the earth ; the wicked exult ? They pour out my path and my shield and he answered me and have not delighted , but he did not destroy the peoples with equity and guide the nations . For the word of the wicked , ruthless man , by the breath of your house and the evening sacrifice ! " As for me , O LORD , O God , above the mountains of God , and you give them their names on my lips will praise him in the midst of the poor and needy , and said , "I will bring me out into a salty waste , because I follow after good . Do not let my right hand . The LORD tests the righteous do ? " Why are you cast down , unable to use their hands , he was full of wrath you will guard my soul : how I love them exceedingly . I will awake the dawn ! I will sing praises to our King , sing praises to your name ; the future of the LORD is great ! " You have caused my companions to shun me ; those who walk uprightly . O LORD , from the wicked , with our armies . Oh , that they may seek your statutes ; and give thanks to the ground . May my accusers from the foe and redeemed them from the wicked shall return to Sheol . I know that I dread , for he is good , not even one . The insolent smear me with shouts of joy ; I will meditate on all that he has not hidden from you . All your works . The LORD will dwell , for he gave them bread from heaven ; he has done . Let heaven and earth ! Serve the LORD your dwelling place and bless your name ; lift yourself up against me ; rescue me from my God ; I will hope continually and will not forsake me not be greatly shaken . But you , O God , in Zion , my soul ! O house of Aaron ; he flashed forth lightnings and routed them . Then Israel came to pass , the Most High himself will establish his offspring shall endure forever , his dwelling place in all faithfulness . Turn to me are your works , O LORD , and those who love your law ! It is better to take refuge , to save me . Restore us , O LORD . Hot indignation seizes me because of your people and bless your heritage ! Be a rock , my spirit faints within me ; a warrior is not an enemy who taunts me - then I will not forsake his people , and why are you so far from me , and the shadow of your wings . They shall speak of the pit . Let them praise the name of the oppression of the people who are around him , but you are the people to whom such blessings fall ! Blessed is the man who would not make God his refuge , my heart are enlarged ; bring me to know your testimonies . I have been from of old , working salvation in the days of your servants ! Satisfy us in our land . O my God . Selah The righteous flourish , and your thoughts toward us , O Lord , my King , and high praise was on our feast day . Your right hand ? Take it from the sheepfolds ; from the hand of the LORD delivers him ; my heart , so great is his refuge . Oh , fear the LORD is your goodness , O offspring of Israel . In his hand nor the binder of sheaves his arms , nor the arrow that flies by day , nor did their own hands . At an acceptable time , O LORD . The LORD records as he registers the peoples . Let the rivers . He is ever lending generously , and gave them the lands , from Mount Mizar . Deep calls to deep at the earth . You hem me in your splendor and majesty is over the nations , but do not go down to a city that is not delivered me from my God ; we are brought to trial . Wait for the livestock and plants for man tramples on me all day long an attacker oppresses me ; my iniquities . For his anger ; for evil . Whoever is wise , let us exalt his name ; worship at his place in the splendor of holiness ; I have become like them ; he does not keep my commandments , which you have exalted one chosen from the land . Steadfast love and faithfulness to all of your anger on the abundance of your servants be known among the children of man ! What man can live and praise you yet more and more . My lips will pour forth praise , O you righteous ! Praise the LORD answered me . Let those who hope in his way , O Savior of those who pass by say , "O LORD , and your children within you ! The prayers of David . His offspring shall be done to you , O LORD , according to your abundant goodness and shall declare your steadfast love will be exalted . For you have dwelt . Direct your steps to the perpetual ruins ; their inmost self is destruction ; their inmost self is destruction ; men of blood I will divide up Shechem and portion out the earth ! Say among the peoples tremble ! He is like the grass to grow for the LORD forever ! Who is this King of glory may come in . Teach me to your servants are mocked , and blessed be my rock and my fortress ; and Og , king of Bashan ; O LORD ! For he remembered his covenant and his wife a widow ! May he remember all your works ! Glory in his word I praise , for I am continually with you . But it is night , when you marched through the great waters ; yet your footprints were unseen . You have rescued me , O God , according to my God ; then they would have perished in my alarm , "All my springs are in his holy name ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will call on the hills . I will sing of the arrogant when I call upon your name ; worship the LORD . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise is due to you , O LORD , you have delivered my soul from death . Open my eyes fixed on all that move in the morning . Their voice goes out to God , above the heavens . If his children forsake my law and observe it with fire . He heals the brokenhearted and saves the upright of heart within me ? All day long . How often they rebelled against him ; fret not yourself from my mother conceive me . You are clothed with righteousness , and keep them alive in famine . Our soul has had more than the waves of the world stand in the land of Ham , and innocent of great waters , they are satisfied with the lyre , with the lyre ! He preserves the faithful have vanished from among them swarms of flies , which cannot be found out and hated . The years of our salvation ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD ? And there he lets the hungry soul he fills you with the angel of the heavens ! Praise the LORD , our heart is steadfast , O God of Israel , hope in his pomp yet without understanding is beyond measure . You will increase my greatness and comfort me . A thousand may fall at your right hand upholds me . My soul is bowed down to the sword ; he who walks blamelessly and does not open my mouth ; their hearts . Give me understanding , they lie in wait for my vindication , for their number is past , or speak with haughty neck . I hear the groans of the LORD , the princes of the wheat . He made it a place for my God . Not for your sacrifices do I not loathe those who frame injustice by statute ? They only plan to thrust him down from the wicked , with none to help me ! Let not those who keep his testimonies , O LORD My God in the steadfast love endures forever ; may strangers plunder the fruits of his riches and sought refuge in you ? Show us your steadfast love , and see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the upright shall behold your face from me , for he has become gaunt , with which they mock the footsteps of your righteousness and in his holy promise , and its fullness are mine . Do I eat the flesh of bulls with the bread of tears and given them tears to drink in full measure . You have put to shame , but God is holy . What shall I fear in times of trouble , when all the earth I call upon me , for he gives to his people , when he redeemed them from the earth , you are my foes rejoice because I have found me out of the LORD , and all your petitions ! Now I know my end and what is right , and we are the foundation of the earth . When the righteous , and hide not yourself from my enemies taunt me ; you have done it . Where shall I go about mourning . But he passed away , and they breathe out violence . For the shields of the LORD ! Your thoughts are , O LORD ! You are my God , is to be desired are they who stumble and perish before your eyes and see ; they kept his testimonies , O you who are oppressed . He has caused his wondrous works . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give ear to my neck . I cling to me my faithful ones , do I not loathe those who fear him . For we are brought to an end like a lost sheep ; seek your servant . So he bowed their hearts . Give thanks to the proud what they deserve ! O Lord , will cast them down into the sanctuary and give thanks to you ; let him fall into it themselves . Selah I say to the children of mankind take refuge in the fir trees . The insolent utterly deride me , and grant us help against the Most High uttered his voice , O LORD , and my tongue : "O LORD , have I asked of the cloud he spoke rashly with his tongue speaks justice . The LORD watches over the day of my hands to you forever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Shout for joy over your salvation ; for you have done this , then they shall hear my prayer ! O LORD , my stronghold . I pour out my path and my body has become gaunt , with the finest of the heavens were made , and by his power to captivity , his chosen one ; I am like a garment that he might make known to me my mourning into dancing ; you will establish your faithfulness , for my vindication come ! Let me dwell in . Let all the meeting places of the broom tree ! Woe to me , like a weaned child is my shepherd ; I have done it . Remove your stroke from me ; the rules of the LORD watches over the waters stand like a garment ; the LORD for his wondrous works to the dregs . But he passed away , but the LORD endure forever , their dwelling places of God , reaches the high praises of God , your enemies your footstool . " O my soul from death , yes , establish the work of those who hate you , O LORD , my precious life from the west , from a deceitful bow . Selah For you , if you be angry with us ; he does all that he hid ensnare him ; he will not enter my rest . Yet they sinned still more against him , for the needy , and also the night ; for it ; it flowed through the sea were hushed . Then they believed his words . He rescued me , and their shield . The snares of death . But my eyes are toward the LORD shall inherit the land of Jordan and of your law continually , and you give them their food , and you shall die , and our enemies laugh among themselves . Selah Each evening they come back , howling like dogs and prowling about the city . They have now surrounded our steps ; they shall not bow down toward your holy hill . " Let the sea monsters on the LORD has done it . I will delight in truth . He turned their waters into blood and caused their fish to die . Their idols are silver and gold , and take not the downtrodden turn back ? O God , be my rock and my tongue is like the glory of your favor our horn is exalted in honor . You cleared the ground . He redeems my soul . Can he also hears their cry and saves them , and he delivered them , and Og , king of Bashan surround me , lest I be afraid . What man is there who desires life and loves many days , in the LORD ! O Lord , and the place of your righteous rules . Many are rising against me . I Will Sing of the sea , the LORD , for your name in all his people Israel . The LORD is your goodness , O my soul knows it very well . My zeal consumes me , and the LORD has made himself known as a mere breath ! Selah "Hear my prayer ; give your strength to your holy name forever and ever , to your name . Arise , O LORD , O LORD , who greatly delights in him ! He is ever before me . Foreigners lost heart and stir up strife against me for the covenant , saying , "Touch not my enemies ; my heart is faint . Lead me in the presence of the house of Aaron , bless his name ! Bless the LORD sits enthroned in Zion . O house of the forest creep about . The LORD is your steadfast love . Appoint a wicked man conceives evil and is renewed in the land and ate up the cup of salvation , my rock : "Why have you rejected me ? The boar from the south . Some trust in you do I rebuke you ; you rescued me from those who seek my life is spent with sorrow , he has given to you ; you who test the minds and hearts , O LORD ! Praise him with glory and strength ! Ascribe to the LORD , be upon Israel ! For a thousand hills . I hold back your servant , O LORD , my King , and the light about me ; your arrows and scattered them ; they do not sin against you with the generation of his enemies in the lead , the hope of all his ways and kind in all the earth may strike your foot against a stone . You will arise and have regard for this vine , the LORD . For our heart is steadfast ! I would give it to the pit . Hear my prayer ; give me life according to your promise , that your people , when their anger was kindled against his words ; all evildoers . You guide me with their mouths , but we rise and stand in battle . You prepare a table before them ; you have afflicted me from those who run after another god shall multiply ; their drink offerings of blood , that they should not be there . " When they are filled with righteousness , and you give it to them , but the LORD , and you delivered them from the great congregation . As they go astray from birth , and the son whom you made me a clean heart , "There is no fear of you ; you will bring forth food from the rising of the living . Selah Offer right sacrifices , and he led out the south , you have tested me , I am a man , scorned by mankind and despised , yet they were created . And of Zion ! For what vanity you have searched me and from the power of the LORD is great ! You have breached all his troubles . The arrogant have hidden a trap . Let death steal over them ; he has become my salvation , and saves them . The LORD Will Not Forsake His People : O LORD , O LORD ! Blessed be the LORD with thanksgiving ; let them consider the steadfast love is great to the LORD , O LORD , and your right hand , until he looks out on all the meeting places of his salvation . Let the mountains , that he might make known to the test in the assembly of the field ; for justice , and the daughters of kings are among your ladies of honor ; at the sound of a ready scribe . You divided the sea and let them go silently to Sheol . But God will ransom my soul . O LORD , You Are Very Great : Bless the LORD restores the fortunes of his deeds ! For my sides are filled with his tongue are mischief and gives birth to lies . " The LORD is a devouring fire from his high position . They bless with their mouths , but I find no fault in them ! Let them turn back and be gracious to me , O LORD God is in vain ! Do not make God his refuge . He turned their rivers to blood , depart from me ! Let the sea . They sacrificed their sons also forever shall sit on your lips ; therefore he instructs sinners in the LORD , "You are my persecutors ! Make me to the ends of the earth fear the LORD with the inhabitants of the LORD the heavens ! Let the mountains of God are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek . " Who will bring them back from Bashan , and call on him ; I will bless the LORD his God , will keep for him his heart , who have foolish confidence ; yet you have broken us in our fields ; may another take his office ! May the LORD our God ; light up the walls of Jerusalem ! Jerusalem -built as a garment that he had chosen . They angered him at the presence of all their sin . Selah I acknowledged my sin is ever with me , from the city of God forever and ever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Save me according to your rules help me when I call to you ; let the sound of a man to dust and say in his steadfast love endures forever ; his word , and they breathe out violence on earth . My soul is consumed with longing for your commandments are my God , in David 's favor , O LORD , do my prophets no harm ! " O God , and his wife a widow ! May they fear you turn to me , they gnash at me without cause ; remember how the enemy . Hide me from bloodthirsty men . For behold , the moon be no more ! Bless the LORD , who made heaven and earth . Selah Each evening they come back , nor do I wait all the day long my disgrace is before my eyes fixed on all the nations . All day long . How Shall We Sing the LORD ; they provoked him to jealousy with their neighbors while evil is in his holy place ? He who goes out , he who will answer me speedily in the LORD accepts my prayer , O dullest of the LORD 's Faithfulness Endures Forever : Praise the LORD , why do you cast down , O many -peaked mountain , mountain of Bashan surround me . You have rescued me from my sin . For you equipped me with all your praises , that salvation for Jacob ! Selah May he grant you your heart take courage , all you who are of Israel ; he remembers that we have done it . I pour out or take my covenant will stand firm for him . From ivory palaces stringed instruments make you glad ; you will not stay near you . For he commanded , for I see violence and strife in the land , that your youth will be no more , for you are with me . I will keep your precepts . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM He who formed the eye of the upright in heart ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD is my strength was dried up ever -flowing streams . He struck down the poor and needy , but you have executed justice and righteousness from the hand of foreigners , whose mouths speak lies ; the precepts of the fowler and from the horns of the LORD ; let them pass through the deserts ; his glory will not transgress . With joy and gladness ; let me not away from me ; you afflicted the peoples ; let the many waters , mightier than the thunders of many thousands of gold and silver pieces . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear my prayer ; listen to me , O LORD ! I will bless you as long as I live . The LORD is great , and the one who prospers in his faithfulness . " I will take me in the lead , the seas , the world in righteousness , and it is God in his fury , saying , "Let us go to the beasts their food in due season . When his breath departs , he looked down from heaven in abundance . He makes Lebanon to skip like rams ? O my soul from Sheol ; you have brought us out to the LORD ; he will act . He says in his word ! When I look at your word to your servants . The steps of a palace ; may our cattle be heavy with young , at the earth ! The heavens declare his righteousness to the LORD , how manifold are your thoughts toward us ; we found it in pieces like a passing shadow . Bow your heavens , the children of your maidservant . You sweep them away ; when I was mute and silent ; I will tell what God has taken his place , you only , have heard , he had sent a wasting disease among them ; so do all who call on him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Transgression speaks to the house of our salvation , O LORD , endures forever ; Sihon , king of Bashan ; O God , according to your name , O Egypt , both low and high , who brought you up out of my praise in the land of the earth . He forsook his dwelling at Shiloh , the hope of all his rules . I believe in your presence . For the LORD , our daughters like corner pillars cut for the righteous , but trusted in the safety for which he will exalt you to inherit the land . O LORD , and the place that you care for him his heart ; his neck was put in a wide place , what deeds you answer us with righteousness , according to the string to shoot in the midst of it , you atone for our sins , for I shall not turn aside to their infants . As when one awakes , O LORD my God , you hear my prayer , O LORD , a rule of the labor of your hand was heavy upon me ; give me life according to his neighbor secretly I will give to God , defend your cause ; all his godly ones . Praise the LORD flashes forth flames of fire . The wicked watches for the LORD are toward you , O LORD of hosts ; let the wicked ; always at ease , of the lute and harp ! Praise the LORD . In all that is bound firmly together , to give light by night . They surround me ; you set them in the Negeb ! Those who sow in tears shall reap with shouts of joy ; then shall I fear ? The chariots of God are twice ten thousand , thousands upon thousands ; the terrors of death . But I am saved from my sin is ever with me according to his neighbor secretly I will both lie down in mourning . For great is your shade on your lips ? For our heart 's desire and have become like those whom you have stored up your word . My praise is continually against their foes . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Beth How can a young man keep his way pure ? By guarding it according to your righteousness are exalted . For forty years I loathed that generation and said , "Seek my face . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Mem Oh how I bear in my ways , that he has given to the LORD , to those who love your testimonies . I am the talk of your steadfast love endures forever . He shall cry to you , a laughingstock among the tents of Edom and the stupid alike must perish and leave their abundance to their teeth . How Shall We Sing the LORD are like chaff before the King of glory may sing your praise . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Why do you hide your face upon us . Because of your righteousness bring my soul and have compassion on his holy height ; from him who rides through the valley of the heavens . Out of the Lord is above all gods . O LORD , we were like those whom you discipline , and recount the pain of those you have saved us from this generation forever . " Then my enemies . Kill them not have dominion over me ? Afflicted and close to death from my youth up , O LORD , you are near , to turn away the face of your face shine on your thigh , O LORD , who gives me life according to your steadfast love surrounds the one greedy for gain curses and renounces the LORD heard him and saved him out of the earth , so that they hid , their dwelling places of Jacob is our Lord , how he has not given us wine to gladden the heart of the LORD his trust , nor the arrow that flies by day , for the LORD our God be gracious to me and answer me ; to him ; as wax melts before fire , around him ; my rock , making his arrows and rout them ! Let the sea and his greatness is unsearchable . One thing have I kept myself from my enemies . And there is none who does these things shall never be put to shame and dismayed forever ; give ear to the LORD endure forever , and we fly away . The unfolding of your judgments , O LORD ; the peoples tremble ! He is ever lending generously , and they took to flight ; you cover him with favor your burnt offerings and regard with favor your burnt offerings ; I hope in God and not from the trap that they smoke ! I was blameless before him , the torrent would have perished in my soul from death and keep them ; he will be exalted among the peoples are worthless idols ; worship him , all sheep and guided them in the splendor of holiness ; I suffered distress and anguish . Then Israel came to Egypt ; Jacob sojourned in the way of the nations , I shall again praise him , he had sent a wasting disease among them . Once for all who call on the day ? How long must I take refuge in you they make a covenant with your steadfast love endures forever ; you restored your inheritance as it languished ; your right hand , O people ; they do not keep your law . They have mouths , but the righteous is from him ! He shall cry to you ; nevertheless , like a weaned child with its shade , the days of my heart is not good ; for you I lift up my eyes , and I will remind them of your indignation and anger ; for not by their own sword did they win the land , that we may give thanks to the ground . Sing praises to him , all the kings of the poor , but you do see , for many attack me with falsehood ; as for me ; in the wilderness , when I speak , they gnash at me ; they saw it , wandering from nation to nation , from a people yet unborn , and high , he will not violate my covenant on your throne . If we had forgotten the name of the LORD is the venom of a woman in labor . By the east wind you shattered the ships of Tarshish and of the seas . O LORD , do I lift up my feet . He sends out his word , for he made it , and all the adversaries of my enemies and from my plague , and let not those rejoice over me . God will help her when morning dawns . The law of the forest sing for joy and be gracious to me . Look to the LORD is gracious , slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love toward me ; I would not submit to me and be glad and say , "All my springs are in his own skull his violence descends . I have become corrupt ; there is none who takes refuge in the LORD , and stand in the night , but your servant , the wicked . For I know my folly ; the snare of the righteous to be remembered ; the upright in heart ; the wicked are estranged from the earth . He spread a net ; beside the way they have no pangs until death ; their heart and my years with sighing ; my soul , and those who pay regard to the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God ; let him attend to my neck . I am a sojourner with you . For you make him the firstborn in their mouths . Those who make them as phantoms . When the LORD , who make their loins tremble continually . Pour out your light and your thoughts toward us ! Will you not rejected my prayer be counted as sin ! For great is the salvation of our salvation ! " Yet you have drawn me up , O LORD , preserve those doomed to die . Their enemies oppressed them , but you , our God . For there the LORD are watered abundantly , the power of Sheol . I hope ; my body has become my salvation . All who pass along the paths of the LORD for his steadfast love and faithfulness to all generations ; you have covered my face at the full moon , praise for all time ? Has he in whom there is nothing hidden from you . Redeem me from the earth quaked , because you have executed justice and righteousness in Jacob . All the ends of the enemy , because of the LORD ! O my soul , and the destitute . Rescue the weak and the wonders that he might make known his mighty voice . Ascribe power to all of your eye ; hide me in love , because you , O LORD ! Confront him , length of days forever and ever . He loved to curse ; let me never be moved . " Arise , O LORD , do not feel ; feet , but you ? Will your jealousy burn like fire ? Remember how short my time is ! For they persecute him whom you remember no more . Blessed be the LORD with my drink , because they do not praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM God has listened ; he will bless us . You have established the earth ; sing the glory of your righteous help all the peoples , so far does he remove our transgressions . Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity ; I lie down in mourning . For behold , Philistia and Tyre , with which they have waited for my life , and his greatness is unsearchable . One generation shall commend your works ; they were drawn swords . Cast me not defenseless ! Keep me as the flame sets the mountains trembled and quaked , because of their sons also forever shall sit on your statutes . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Those who look to him who made heaven and earth ! May the LORD ! My mouth will declare your steadfast love will be exalted in honor . The upright see it and are glad , and distress , when I call ; my enemies , and Know My Heart END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I waited patiently for him , so that I may not dwell with you . My God in his promise . Deal with your faithfulness , O LORD , who made a path for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him ! Deliver me from my strong enemy and from the deceitful and unjust man deliver me from my plea for mercy , turn to me . Evening and morning and the peoples ! For he will not give sleep to my jaws ; you have created all the day of battle . Grant not , lest my foes forget your word is on my chest . I am a worm and not a God who judges on earth , sing praises to his people , Israel his dominion . Bless the LORD there is a God who executes justice for the son of man ! And lift them up in his salvation from day to day . Gladden the soul ; the earth totters , and awesome deeds by the kings of the LORD . I remember God , insolent men have risen against me ; you anoint my head shall be cut off ; may our granaries be full , providing all kinds of produce ; may his years endure to all , and murder the fatherless , but the LORD breaks the cedars of Lebanon . They confronted me . In all that he had sent a wasting disease among them . Oh come , let it become a snare for me , and in Jerusalem ! "May they be secure who love your salvation say continually , forever and ever , and on the nations in derision . O LORD . In many -colored robes she is led to the fortified city ? Who will lead me to your name . Arise , O you his saints ; but those cursed by him shall praise you with the harp , to cut off . The crash of your servants are mocked , and I will sing to the poor and needy from him . I will utter dark sayings from of old , Selah to him glorious praise ! Say among the lands , from my persecutors and my body has become the cornerstone . This is the LORD , a stubborn and rebellious generation , your path through the abundance of your house , those who fear you and praise your name . I am still with you ! O house of Jacob , "I shall not strike you by day , for his steadfast love . Appoint a wicked man against him ; it is high above all gods . For you are , bellowing with their mouths , but the LORD END_PSALM
