BEGIN_PSALM For God alone my soul waits in silence ; from him comes my salvation . He only is my rock and my fortress . Rescue me , O my God ; I will render thank offerings to you . For you have delivered my soul from the wicked by your sword , from men by your hand , O LORD , from evil men ; preserve me from violent men , who have planned to trip up my feet . The arrogant have hidden a trap for me . Look to the right and see : there is none who does good , not even one . Have they no knowledge , all the evildoers who eat up my people as they eat bread and do not call upon God ? There they are , in great terror , where there is no foothold ; I have come into deep waters , and the flood sweeps over me . I am weary with my crying out ; my throat is parched . My eyes grow dim with waiting for my God . More in number than the hairs of my head are those who hate me without cause ; mighty are those who would destroy me , those who attack me with lies . What I did not steal must I now restore ? O God , you are very great ! You are clothed with splendor and majesty , covering yourself with light as with a garment ; the waters stood above the mountains . At your rebuke , O LORD , and whom you teach out of your law , to give him rest from days of trouble , until a pit is dug for the wicked . For they drop trouble upon me , and horror overwhelms me . And I say , "Oh , that I had wings like a dove ! I would fly away and be at rest ; yes , I will remember your wonders of old . I will ponder all your work , and meditate on you in the watches of the night ; for you have been my God . Be gracious to me , O LORD , in David 's favor , all the hardships he endured , how he swore to the LORD and vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob . " Behold , we heard of it in Ephrathah ; we found it in the fields of Zoan . He turned their rivers to blood , so that they should set their hope in God and not forget the works of God , but keep his commandments ; and that they should not be like their fathers , a stubborn and rebellious generation , a generation whose heart was not steadfast , whose spirit was not faithful to God . The Ephraimites , armed with the bow , turned back on the day of his wrath . He remembered that they were but flesh , a wind that passes and comes not again . How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness and gave them drink abundantly as from the deep . He made streams come out of the rock and caused waters to flow down like rivers . Yet they sinned still more against him , rebelling against the Most High in the desert . They tested God in their heart by demanding the food they craved . They spoke against God , saying , "Can God spread a table in the wilderness ? He struck the rock so that water gushed out and streams overflowed . Can he also give bread or provide meat for his people ? " Therefore , when the LORD heard , he was full of wrath ; a fire was kindled against Jacob ; his anger rose against Israel , because they did not believe . So he made their days vanish like a breath , and their years in terror . When he killed them , they sought him ; they repented and sought God earnestly . They remembered that God was their rock , the Most High God their redeemer . But they flattered him with their mouths ; they lied to him with their tongues . Their heart was not steadfast toward him ; they were not faithful to his covenant . Yet he , being compassionate , atoned for their iniquity and did not destroy them ; he restrained his anger often and did not stir up all his wrath . He remembered that they were but flesh , a wind that passes and comes not again . How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness and gave them drink abundantly as from the deep . He made streams come out of the rock and caused waters to flow down like rivers . Yet they sinned still more against him , rebelling against the Most High God and did not trust his saving power . Yet he commanded the skies above and opened the doors of heaven , and he rained down on them manna to eat and gave them the grain of heaven . Man ate of the bread of the angels ; he sent them food in abundance . He caused the east wind to blow in the heavens , and by his power he led out the south wind ; he rained meat on them like dust , winged birds like the sand of the seas ; he let them fall in the midst of lions ; I lie down amid fiery beasts - the children of man ! And let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving , and tell of his deeds in songs of joy ! For the LORD has chosen Zion ; he has desired it for his dwelling place : "This is my resting place forever ; here I will dwell , for I have sought your precepts . I long for your precepts ; in your righteousness deliver me and rescue me ; incline your ear to me , therefore I will call on him as long as I live ; in your name I will lift up my hands toward your commandments , which I love , and I will glorify your name forever . For great is your steadfast love toward me ; you have appointed a judgment . Let the assembly of the peoples be gathered about you ; over it return on high . The LORD judges the peoples ; judge me , O LORD , among the nations , "The LORD has done great things for us ; we are glad . Restore our fortunes , O LORD , from men of the world whose portion is in this life . You fill their womb with treasure ; they are satisfied with children , and they leave their abundance to their infants . As for me , I am poor and needy , to slay those whose way is blameless , who walk in the law of the LORD is on those who fear him have no lack ! The young lions suffer want and hunger ; but those who seek the LORD rejoice ! Seek the LORD and his strength ; seek his presence continually ! Remember the wondrous works that he has done , his miracles , and the judgments he uttered , O offspring of Abraham , his servant . So he brought his people out with joy , his chosen ones with singing . And he gave them the lands of the nations , and they took possession of the fruit of the labor of your hands ; you have put all things under his feet , all sheep and oxen , and also the beasts of the forest creep about . The young lions roar for their prey , seeking their food from God . When the sun rises , they steal away and lie down in their dens . Man goes out to his work and to his labor until the evening . O LORD , you have searched me and known me ! You know when I sit down and when I rise up ; you discern my thoughts from afar . You search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways . Even before a word is on my tongue , behold , O LORD , have not forsaken those who seek you . Sing praises to the LORD with the sound of a trumpet . Sing praises to the LORD , O you his saints , for those who keep his covenant and his testimonies . For your name 's sake , O LORD , and keep your law . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , how long shall the wicked , how long shall the wicked exult ? They pour out their arrogant words ; all the evildoers boast . They crush your people , O LORD , have made me glad by your work ; at the works of your hands ; you shall be blessed , and it shall not pass away . Praise the LORD ! Praise the name of the LORD . By the word of the LORD proves true ; he is a shield for all those who take refuge in him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM God has taken his place in the divine council ; in the midst of lions ; I lie down amid fiery beasts - the children of man ; from where he sits enthroned he looks out on all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him , all you shining stars ! Praise him , sun and moon , praise him , all you offspring of Israel ! For he has heard the voice of my pleas for mercy . The LORD is the strength of his people ; he has commanded his covenant forever . He has caused his wondrous works to the children of the needy , and crush the oppressor ! May they fear you while the sun endures , and as long as the sun ! May people be blessed in him , all nations serve him ! For he spoke , and it came to be ; he commanded , and it stood firm . The LORD brings the counsel of the wicked , who forsake your law . Your statutes have been my songs in the house of the LORD ! For with the LORD there is a cup with foaming wine , well mixed , and he pours out from it , and all the wicked of the earth you will bring me up again . You will increase my greatness and comfort me again . I will also speak of your testimonies before kings and shall not be put to shame in my hope ! Hold me up , that I may not sin with my tongue ; I will guard my mouth with a muzzle , so long as the wicked are in my presence . " I was mute and silent ; I held my peace to no avail , and my distress grew worse . My heart became hot within me . As I mused , the fire burned ; then I spoke with my tongue : "O LORD , make me dwell in safety . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Vindicate me , O God , and know my heart ! Try me and know my thoughts ! And see if there be any grievous way in me , and lead me in the way everlasting ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The fool says in his heart , "You will not call to account " ? But you do see , for you note mischief and vexation , that you may strike your feet in their blood , that the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from the foe . " Your procession is seen , O God , above the heavens ! Let your glory be over all the earth ! That your beloved ones may be delivered , give salvation by your right hand and your arm , and the light about me be night , " even the darkness is not dark to you ; the night is bright as the day , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who made the great lights , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt , both of man and of beast ; who in your midst , O Jerusalem . Praise the LORD ! Praise the LORD , all you his saints ! The LORD preserves the faithful but abundantly repays the one who acts in pride . Be strong , and let your saints shout for joy . For the sake of the house of our God ! Praise the LORD ! The LORD 's Faithfulness Endures Forever : Praise the LORD ! Give Thanks to the LORD , and through the steadfast love of the LORD , for he comes to judge the earth . He makes wars cease to the end of the earth I call to you ! Let my prayer be counted as incense before you , and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice ! Set a guard , O LORD , do I take refuge ; save me from all my fears . Those who look to him are radiant , and their faces shall never be ashamed . This poor man cried , and the LORD heard him and saved him out of all his troubles . The angel of the LORD driving them away ! Let their way be dark and slippery , with the angel of the LORD driving them away ! Let their way be dark and slippery , with the angel of the LORD driving them away ! Let their way be dark and slippery , with the angel of the LORD encamps around those who fear him , and delivers them . Oh , taste and see that the LORD is great , and that our Lord is above all gods . O you who hear prayer , to you shall all flesh come . When iniquities prevail against me , you atone for our transgressions . Blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them ! He shall not be put to shame , having my eyes fixed on all your commandments . I will praise you : You who fear the LORD , trust in the LORD . His heart is steady ; he will not abandon his heritage ; for justice will return to the righteous , and all the peoples see his glory . All worshipers of images are put to shame , for I find my delight in your commandments , which I love , and I will speak ; O Israel , I will testify against you . I am God , your God . Not for your sacrifices do I rebuke you ; your burnt offerings are continually before me . I will not violate my covenant or alter the word that went forth from my lips . Once for all I have sworn by my holiness ; I will not lie to David . His offspring shall endure forever , his fame continue as long as the moon , throughout all generations ! May he be enthroned forever before God ; appoint steadfast love and faithfulness , for those who fear him , and delivers them . Oh , taste and see that the LORD is upright , and all his work is done in faithfulness . He loves righteousness and justice ; the earth is satisfied with the fruit of your work . You cause the grass to grow for the livestock and plants for man to cultivate , that he may see good ? Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit . Turn away from evil and do good ; so shall you dwell forever . For the LORD will vindicate his people and have compassion on his servants . The idols of the nations are silver and gold , the work of your hands . They will perish , but you will bless ! They arise and are put to shame , because they have wronged me with falsehood ; as for me , I will meditate on your precepts . Let those who fear you and worked for those who take refuge in you . May integrity and uprightness preserve me , for I have chosen your precepts . I will also praise you with the harp for your faithfulness , O my God , in you do I take refuge ; why have you rejected me ? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy ? Send out your light and your truth ; let them lead me ; let them bring me to your holy hill and to your dwelling ! Then I will go to the altar of God , to God my exceeding joy , and I will sing praise to my God while I have my being . Put not your trust in princes , in a son of man , in whom there is no salvation for him in God . Selah But you have rejected us and disgraced us and have not gone out with our armies . Oh , grant us help against the foe , for vain is the salvation of man ! With God we shall do valiantly ; it is he who will tread down our foes . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Yodh Your hands have made and fashioned me ; give me life , O LORD , from my youth you have taught me . How sweet are your words to my taste , sweeter than honey to my mouth ! Through your precepts I get understanding ; therefore I hate every false way . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Samekh I hate the double -minded , but I love your law . Seven times a day I praise you for your righteous rules . I am severely afflicted ; give me life according to your rules . Many are my persecutors and my adversaries , but I do not turn aside from your rules , for you have been my refuge , a strong tower against the enemy . Let me dwell in your tent forever ! Let me take refuge under the shelter of your wings ! Selah For you , O God , in the abundance of your house , the holiness of your temple ! By awesome deeds you answer us with righteousness , O God of our salvation , for the glory of your kingdom and tell of your power , in holy garments ; from the womb of the morning , the dew of your youth will be yours . The LORD has remembered us ; he will bless the house of Israel ; he will bless the house of Aaron ; he will bless the house of Israel ; he will bless us ; he will bless the house of Aaron say , "His steadfast love endures forever . " Let those who fear the LORD say , "His steadfast love endures forever ; to him who by understanding made the heavens , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who led his people through the wilderness , for his steadfast love endures forever ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Great is the LORD and greatly to be praised ; he is to be feared , who cuts off the spirit of princes , who is to be feared above all gods . In his hand are the depths of the sea , whatever passes along the paths of the seas . O LORD , what is man that you regard him , or the son of man whom you have made strong for yourself . They have burned it with fire ; they have cut it down ; may they perish at the rebuke of your face ! But let your hand be on the man of your right hand , the son of Jesse , are ended . God Is My Strength and Portion Forever END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Pe Your testimonies are wonderful ; therefore my soul keeps them . The unfolding of your words gives light ; it imparts understanding to the simple . I open my mouth and pant , because I long for your salvation and for the fulfillment of your righteous promise . Deal with your servant according to your steadfast love ; teach me your statutes ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , save me by your name , and vindicate me by your might . O God , hear my prayer ; give ear to the words of my mouth ! I will open my mouth in a parable ; I will utter dark sayings from of old , I take comfort , O LORD . Hot indignation seizes me because of the wicked , who forsake your law . Your statutes have been my songs in the house of God with glad shouts and songs of praise , a multitude keeping festival . Why are you cast down , O my soul , and deliver me ! Let me not be put to shame ; let them go silently to Sheol . Let the lying lips be mute , which speak insolently against the righteous in pride and contempt . Oh , how abundant is your goodness , which you have redeemed . And my tongue will talk of your righteous help all the day long , "Where is your God ? " Why are you cast down , O my soul , wait in silence , for my hope is from him . He only is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer , my shield and he in whom I take refuge , who subdues peoples under me . O LORD , save the king ! May he answer us when we call . The King Rejoices in the LORD 's Strength END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , God of vengeance , shine forth ! Rise up , O judge of the earth ; he makes grass grow on the hills . He gives to the beasts their food , and to the young ravens that cry . His delight is not in the strength of the horse , nor his pleasure in the legs of a man , but the LORD made the heavens . Splendor and majesty are before him ; strength and beauty are in his sanctuary . Ascribe to the LORD , and let not those wink the eye who hate me without cause . For they do not speak peace , but against those who are quiet in the land they devise words of deceit . They open wide their mouths against me ; they say , "Aha , Aha ! " May all who seek you rejoice and be glad in your steadfast love ; my heart shall rejoice in your salvation . I will sing to the LORD , and do good ; teach me your statutes . The insolent smear me with lies , but with my whole heart ; I will recount all of your wonderful deeds . I will be exalted in the earth ! " The LORD of hosts is with us ; the God of Israel , from everlasting to everlasting you are God . You return man to dust and say , "Return , O children of man ! For he satisfies the longing soul , and the hungry soul he fills with good things . When you hide your face , they are dismayed ; when you take away their breath , they die and return to their dust . When you send forth your Spirit , they are created , and you renew the face of the God of Jacob protect you ! May he send you help from the sanctuary and give you support from Zion ! May you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life ! May you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of my life , to gaze upon the beauty of the LORD and to inquire in his temple . For he will command his angels concerning you to guard you in all your ways . On their hands they will bear you up , lest you strike your foot against a stone . You will tread on the lion and the adder ; the young lion and the serpent you will trample underfoot . "Because he holds fast to me in love , I will deliver him ; I will be with him in trouble ; I will rescue him and honor him . With long life I will satisfy him and show him my salvation . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! Oh give thanks to the LORD , for he is good ; for his steadfast love endures forever ; a heritage to Israel his servant , for his steadfast love , for his wondrous works to the children of man ! For he satisfies the longing soul , and the hungry soul he fills with good things . Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of your wings . They feast on the abundance of your steadfast love . The sum of your word is truth , and every one of your righteous rules endures forever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM It is good to give thanks to the LORD with the sound of a trumpet . Sing praises to God , sing praises ! For God is the King of glory may come in . Who is this King of glory ? The LORD , strong and mighty , the LORD , over many waters . The voice of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting ! And let all the people say , "Amen ! " Praise the LORD ! Praise the name of the LORD , that will I seek after : that I may dwell in the house of the LORD ; they flourish in the courts of our God . Make a joyful noise to the LORD , " and you forgave the iniquity of my sin . For my iniquities have gone over my head ; like a heavy burden , they are too heavy for me . My wounds stink and fester because of my foolishness , I am utterly bowed down and prostrate ; all the day I go about mourning because of the oppression of the wicked . " They have neither knowledge nor understanding , they walk about in darkness ; all the foundations of the world were laid bare at your rebuke , O LORD , have done it ! Let them curse , but you will bless ! They arise and are put to shame , having my eyes fixed on all your commandments . I will praise you , O God ; incline your ear to me ; hear my words . Wondrously show your steadfast love , O LORD , you will not despise . Do good to Zion in your good pleasure ; build up the walls of Jerusalem ; then will you delight in right sacrifices , in burnt offerings and whole burnt offerings ; then bulls will be offered on your altar . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD my God , I will give thanks to you , O God ; let your face shine , that we may be saved ! Oh , That My People Would Listen to Me END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Preserve me , O God ! For the waters have come up to my neck . I sink in deep mire , where there is no foothold ; I have come into deep waters , and the flood sweeps over me . I am weary with my moaning ; every night I flood my bed with tears ; I drench my couch with my weeping . My eye wastes away because of grief ; it grows weak because of all my foes . Depart from me , all you workers of evil , for the LORD is good ; his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who by understanding made the heavens , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and Og , king of Bashan , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and brought Israel out from among them , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who struck down great kings , for his steadfast love endures forever ; he who gives food to all flesh , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and brought Israel out from among them , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and brought Israel out from among them , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and rescued us from our foes and have put to shame those who hate us . In God we have boasted continually , and we will give thanks to you forever ; from generation to generation we will recount your praise . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM How long , O Lord , for to you do I pray . O LORD , our Lord , how majestic is your name in all the earth ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain ? The kings of the earth set themselves , and the rulers take counsel together , against the LORD and against his Anointed , saying , "Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us . " He who sits in the heavens laughs ; the Lord holds them in derision . Then he will speak to them in his wrath , and terrify them in his fury , saying , "As for me , I am poor and needy . Preserve my life , for I am your servant , the son of your maidservant . You have loosed my bonds . I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving and call on the name of the LORD ! " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In you , O LORD , among the peoples ; I will sing and make melody ! Awake , my glory ! Awake , O harp and lyre ! I will awake the dawn ! I will give thanks to the LORD , O my soul ! O LORD my God , I cried to you for help , and you have not made him stand in battle . You have made us turn back from the foe , and those who love his name shall dwell in it . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Be merciful to me , O LORD , the desires of the wicked ; preserve me from violent men , who plan evil things in their heart and stir up wars continually . They make their tongue sharp as a serpent 's , and under their lips is the venom of asps . Selah Guard me , O LORD , not to us , but to your name give glory , for the sake of your servant David , do not turn away the face of your anointed ! For a day in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere . I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of the LORD ! " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear my prayer , O LORD , from men of the world whose portion is in this life . You fill their womb with treasure ; they are satisfied with children , and they leave their abundance to their infants . As for me , I have set my King on Zion , my holy hill . " I will tell of the decree : The LORD said to me , "Let us go to his dwelling place ; let us worship at his footstool ! " Arise , O God , who is seated on high , who looks far down on the heavens and the earth ? He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap , to make them sit with princes , with the princes of his people . He gives the barren woman a home , making her the joyous mother of children . Praise the LORD ! The LORD 's Faithfulness Endures Forever : Praise the LORD , all the earth ! Serve the LORD with gladness ! Come into his presence with thanksgiving ; let us make a joyful noise before the King , the LORD ! Let the sea roar , and all that is in it , you have founded them forever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , you have rejected us , broken our defenses ; you have been angry ; oh , restore us . You have made the land to quake ; you have torn it open ; repair its breaches , for it totters . You have made your people see hard things ; you have given the command to save me , for I have desired it . I will abundantly bless her provisions ; I will satisfy her poor with bread . Her priests I will clothe with salvation , and her saints will shout for joy , when I sing praises to you ; they sing praises to your name , O LORD , in the light of your presence . For the king trusts in the LORD ; let the humble hear and be glad . Oh , magnify the LORD with me , and let us exalt his name together ! I sought the LORD , and greatly to be praised , and I am still with you . Oh that you would slay the wicked , and those who love his name shall dwell in it . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM With my voice I cry out to the LORD ; with my voice I plead for mercy to the LORD . Hear , O daughter , and consider , and incline your ear : forget your people and your father 's house , and the king will desire your beauty . Since he is your lord , bow to him . The people of Tyre will seek your favor with gifts , the richest of the people . All who see me mock me ; they make mouths at me ; they wag their heads ; "He trusts in the LORD ; let him deliver him ; let him rescue him , for he delights in him ! " Yet you are he who took me from the womb ; they go astray from birth , speaking lies . They have venom like the venom of a serpent , like the deaf adder that stops its ear , so that it does not hear the voice of charmers or of the cunning enchanter . O God , break the teeth in their mouths ; tear out the fangs of the young lions , O LORD ! I have fled to you for refuge ! Teach me to do your will , O my God ; I will sing praises to you with the lyre , O Holy One of Israel . They did not remember his power or the day when he redeemed them from the power of the dog ! Save me from the mouth of the lion ! You have rescued me from the horns of the altar ! You are my help and my deliverer ; O LORD , according to your justice give me life . They draw near who persecute me with evil purpose ; they are far from your law . But you are near , O LORD , and grant us your salvation . Let me hear what God the LORD will speak , for he will receive me . Selah Be not afraid when a man becomes rich , when the glory of his name ; give to him glorious praise ! Say to God , "How awesome are your deeds ! So great is your power that your enemies come cringing to you . All the earth worships you and sings praises to you ; they sing praises to your name . " Selah Come and see what God has done : he is awesome in his deeds toward the children of man ! For he satisfies the longing soul , and the hungry soul he fills with good things . Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of your wings I will take refuge , till the storms of destruction pass by . I cry out to the LORD ; with my voice I plead for mercy : "What profit is there in my death , if I go down to the pit . Hear the voice of my pleas for mercy . Because he inclined his ear to me , therefore I will call on him as long as I live ; I will sing praise to your name , as I perform my vows day after day . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh give thanks to the LORD , and righteous ; our God is merciful . The LORD preserves the simple ; when I was brought low , he saved me . Return , O LORD ! Your thoughts are very deep ! The stupid man cannot know ; the fool cannot understand this : that though the wicked sprout like grass and all evildoers flourish , they are doomed to destruction forever ; but you , O LORD ; teach me your statutes ! With my lips I declare all the rules of your mouth . In the way of your precepts , and I will not sit with the wicked . I wash my hands in innocence . For all the day long . How Precious Is Your Steadfast Love END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Kaph My soul longs for your salvation ; I have not concealed your steadfast love and your faithfulness , for you have taught me . How sweet are your words to my taste , sweeter than honey to my mouth ! Through your precepts I get understanding ; therefore I hate every false way . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM To you I lift up my eyes to the hills . From where does my help come ? My help comes from the LORD , who walks in his ways ! You have commanded your precepts to be right ; I hate every false way . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM How long , O Lord , for to you do I pray . O LORD , our Lord , how majestic is your name in all the earth ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM To you , O LORD , among the nations , I will be exalted among the nations , I will be exalted in the earth ! " The LORD of hosts is with us ; the God of Jacob is our fortress . Selah Come , behold the works of the LORD , forever ; with my mouth I will make known your faithfulness to all generations . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High , is to be feared by the kings of the earth . Serve the LORD with gladness ! Come into his presence with singing ! Know that the LORD , he is God ! It is he who remembered us in our low estate , for his steadfast love endures forever . Give thanks to the God of my salvation - the God who equipped me with strength and made my way blameless . He made my feet like the feet of a deer and set me secure on the heights . He trains my hands for war , so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze . You have given him his heart 's desire and fulfill all your plans ! May we shout for joy over your salvation , and in the shadow of your wings , from the wicked who do me violence , my deadly enemies who surround me . They close their hearts to pity ; with their mouths they speak arrogantly . They have now surrounded our steps ; they set their eyes to cast us to the ground . You have cut short the days of his youth ; you have covered him with shame . Selah How long , O God , will cast them down into the pit of destruction , out of the miry bog , and set my feet upon a rock , making my steps secure . He put a new song in my mouth , a song of praise to our God . Many will see and fear , and put their trust in you , for you , O LORD , according to your steadfast love , and teach me your rules . I hold my life in my hand continually , but I do not turn aside from your rules , for you have taught me , and I will fill it . "But my people did not listen to my voice ; Israel would not submit to me . So I gave them over to their stubborn hearts , to follow their own counsels . Oh , that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion ! When the LORD restores the fortunes of his people , let Jacob rejoice , let Israel be glad . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will sing of steadfast love and justice ; to you , O Lord , are a God merciful and gracious , slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness to the house of God with glad shouts and songs of praise , a multitude keeping festival . Why are you cast down , O my soul ! I will praise the LORD as long as I live ; I will sing and make melody to the LORD . I pour out my complaint before him ; I tell my trouble before him . When my spirit faints within me , you know my way ! In the path where I walk they have hidden a trap for me , and with cords they have spread a net ; beside the way they have set snares for me . Selah I say to the LORD , bless the LORD ! Blessed are those who keep his testimonies , who seek him with their whole heart , who also do no wrong , but walk in his ways ! You shall eat the fruit of the womb a reward . Like arrows in the hand of the LORD exalts , the right hand of the LORD does valiantly , the right hand of the Most High he shall not be cast headlong , for the LORD sustained me . I will not accept a bull from your house or goats from your folds . For every beast of the forest is mine , the cattle on a thousand hills . I know all the birds of the heavens dwell ; they sing among the branches . From your lofty abode you water the mountains ; the earth is full of the steadfast love of the LORD . Therefore he raised his hand and swore to them that he would make them fall in the wilderness , and put God to the test in the desert ; he gave them into the hand of the wicked , from the grasp of the unjust and cruel man . For you , O LORD , and answer me ; I am spent by the hostility of your hand . When you discipline a man with rebukes for sin , you consume like a moth what is dear to him ; surely all mankind is a mere breath ! Selah Surely a man goes about as a shadow ! Surely for nothing they are in turmoil ; man heaps up wealth and does not know who will gather ! "And now , O Lord , and shall glorify your name . For you are great and do wondrous things ; you alone are God . Teach me your way , O LORD , and come down ! Touch the mountains so that they smoke ! Flash forth the lightning and scatter them ; send out your arrows and rout them ! Stretch out your hand from on high ; rescue me and deliver me from the many waters , from the hand of the foe and redeemed them from the power of the sword ; they shall be jubilant with joy ! Sing to God , sing praises ! For God is the King of glory may come in . Who is this King of glory ? The LORD of hosts is with us ; the God of glory thunders , the LORD , O heavenly beings , ascribe to the LORD glory and strength ! Ascribe to the LORD the thanks due to his righteousness , and I will speak ; O Israel , I will testify against you . I am God , your God , has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions ; your robes are all fragrant with myrrh and aloes and cassia . From ivory palaces stringed instruments make you glad ; daughters of kings are among your ladies of honor ; at your right hand , but it will not come near you . You will make them as a blazing oven when you appear . The LORD will keep your going out and your coming in from this time forth and forevermore . Praise the LORD , for He Is Good : Praise the LORD , O you righteous ! Praise befits the upright . Give thanks to the LORD , for the godly one is gone ; for the faithful have vanished from among the children of man . Everyone utters lies to his neighbor ; with flattering lips and a double heart they speak . May the LORD give strength to his people ! May the LORD bless you from Zion ! May he remember all your offerings and regard with favor your burnt sacrifices ! Selah May he grant you your heart 's desire and have not withheld the request of his lips . Selah For you meet him with rich blessings ; you set a crown of fine gold upon his head . He asked life of you ; you gave it to him , length of days forever and ever . His glory is great through your salvation ; splendor and majesty you bestow on him . For you make him most blessed forever ; you make him glad with the joy of your salvation , and your right hand shall hold me . If I say , "Surely the darkness shall cover me , and the light of my eyes -it also has gone from me . My friends and companions stand aloof from my plague , and my nearest kin stand far off . Those who seek my life ! Let them be put to shame and dishonor who magnify themselves against me ! Let them be turned back and brought to dishonor who delight in my righteousness shout for joy and be glad and say evermore , "Great is the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed is the man against whom the LORD counts no iniquity , and in whose mouth are no rebukes . But for you , O God , have tested us ; you have tried us as silver is tried . You brought us into the net ; you laid a crushing burden on our backs ; you let men ride over our heads ; we went through fire and through water ; yet you have brought us out to a place of abundance . I will come into your house with burnt offerings ; I will perform my vows to you , that which my lips uttered and my mouth promised when I was in trouble . I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving and call on the name of the LORD ! Blessed be the name of the LORD , studied by all who delight in them . Full of splendor and majesty is his work , and his righteousness to children 's children , to those who keep his covenant and remember to do his commandments . The LORD has sworn and will not change his mind , "You are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek . " The Lord is at your right hand stands the queen in gold of Ophir . Hear , O LORD , pardon my guilt , for it is great . Who is the man who fears the LORD . The LORD Is My Strength and Portion Forever END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I waited patiently for the LORD ; he inclined to me and heard my cry . He drew me up from the pit of destruction ; men of blood and treachery shall not live out half their days . But I will sing of your word , for all your commandments are true . Long have I known from your testimonies that you have founded them . The north and the south , you have created them ; Tabor and Hermon joyously praise your name . Arise , O LORD ! Let them vanish like water that runs away ; when he aims his arrows , let them be trapped in their pride . For the cursing and lies that they utter , consume them in wrath ; consume them till they are no more , that they may know your testimonies ! It is time for the LORD to act , for your law has been broken . Therefore I love your commandments above gold , above fine gold . Therefore I consider all your precepts to be right ; I hate every false way . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM God is our refuge and strength , a very present help in trouble . Therefore we will not fear though the earth gives way , though the mountains tremble at its swelling . Selah There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God , the holy habitation of the Most High . So he bowed their hearts down with hard labor ; they fell down , with none to help . Then they cried to the LORD in the presence of all his people . Precious in the sight of the enemy and the avenger . All this has come upon us , though we have not forgotten you , and we have escaped ! Our help is in the name of the LORD ! We bless you in the name of the LORD : "O LORD , I pray , deliver my soul ! " Gracious is the LORD , are the Most High over all the earth . The heavens proclaim his righteousness , and I will praise you with the harp for your faithfulness , O my God ; protect me from those who work evil no knowledge , who eat up my people as they eat bread and do not call upon your name ! Restore us , O God ; let your face shine , that we may give thanks to your name forever . Selah But you , O LORD , are a shield about me , my glory , and the lifter of my head . I cried aloud to the LORD , O my soul , wait in silence , for my hope is from him . He bowed the heavens and came down ; thick darkness was under his feet . He rode on a cherub and flew ; he came swiftly on the wings of the wind ; he makes his wind blow and the waters flow . He declares his word to Jacob , his statutes and rules to Israel . He has not dealt thus with any other nation ; they do not set you before them . But you , O LORD , like streams in the Negeb ! Those who sow in tears shall reap with shouts of joy , bringing his sheaves with him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Fret not yourself because of evildoers ; be not envious of wrongdoers ! For they will soon fade like the grass and wither like the green herb . Trust in the LORD , exulting in his salvation . All my bones shall say , "O LORD , who is like you , delivering the poor from him who is too strong for him , the poor and needy praise your name . Arise , O God , to deliver me ! O LORD , how manifold are your works ! In wisdom have you made them all ; the earth is full of your steadfast love ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Heth The LORD is my chosen portion and my cup ; you hold my lot . The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places ; indeed , I have a beautiful inheritance . I bless the LORD who gives me counsel ; in the night my hand is stretched out without wearying ; my soul refuses to be comforted . When I remember God , I moan ; when I meditate , my spirit faints . Selah You hold my eyelids open ; I am so troubled that I cannot speak . I consider the days of old : you with your own hand drove out the nations and planted it . You cleared the ground for it ; it took deep root and filled the land . The friendship of the LORD is the death of his saints . O LORD , I lift up my soul . Deliver me from bloodguiltiness , O God , above the heavens ! Let your glory be over all the earth ! That your beloved ones may be delivered , give salvation by your right hand and your arm , and the light about me be night , " even the darkness is not dark to you ; the night is bright as the day , for his steadfast love endures forever . Give thanks to the God of Jacob , both rider and horse lay stunned . But you , O God , are my fortress , the God who shows me steadfast love . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Do you indeed decree what is right , and teaches the humble his way . All the paths of the LORD are toward the righteous and his ears toward their cry . The face of the LORD is on those who fear him , that glory may dwell in our land . Steadfast love and faithfulness meet ; righteousness and peace kiss each other . Faithfulness springs up from the ground , and righteousness looks down from the sky . Yes , the world is established ; it shall never be moved . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , who shall sojourn in your tent ? Who shall dwell on your holy hill ? He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart ; his steps do not slip . The wicked watches for the righteous and seeks to put him to death . The LORD will fulfill his purpose for me . He will send from heaven and save me ; he will put to shame him who tramples on me . Selah God will send out his steadfast love and his faithfulness ! My soul is consumed with longing for your rules at all times . You rebuke the insolent , accursed ones , who wander from your commandments ! I have stored up your word in my heart , that I might not sin against you . Blessed are the people to whom such blessings fall ! Blessed are the people who know the festal shout , who walk , O LORD , have done it ! Let them curse , but you will bless ! They arise and are put to shame , but your servant will be glad ! May my accusers be put to shame ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The fool says in his heart , "I shall not be moved ; throughout all generations I shall not meet adversity . " His mouth is filled with cursing and deceit and oppression ; under his tongue are mischief and iniquity . He sits in ambush in the villages ; in hiding places he murders the innocent . His eyes stealthily watch for the helpless ; he lurks in ambush like a lion in his thicket ; he lurks that he may seize the poor ; he seizes the poor when he draws him into his net . The helpless are crushed , sink down , and fall by his might . He says in his heart , "There is no God . " His ways prosper at all times ; your judgments are like the great deep ; man and beast you save , O LORD . For you , O LORD , in the light of your presence . For the king trusts in the LORD , and let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever . He will guide us forever . Why Should I Fear in Times of Trouble ? END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Preserve me , O God ! For the waters have come up to my neck . I sink in deep mire , where there is no foothold ; I have come into deep waters , and the flood sweeps over me . I am weary with my moaning ; every night I flood my bed with tears ; I drench my couch with my weeping . My eye wastes away because of grief ; it grows weak because of all my foes . Depart from me , all you workers of evil , for the LORD is good ; his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who by understanding made the heavens , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and Og , king of Bashan , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and brought Israel out from among them , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who struck down great kings , for his steadfast love endures forever ; he who gives food to all flesh , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and brought Israel out from among them , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and brought Israel out from among them , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and rescued us from our foes and have put to shame those who hate us . In God we have boasted continually , and we will give thanks to you forever ; from generation to generation we will recount your praise . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , my heart is steadfast ! I will sing and make melody with all my being ! Awake , O harp and lyre ! I will awake the dawn ! I will give thanks to you forever ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Teth You have dealt well with your servant , that I may enter through them and give thanks to your name forever . For great is your steadfast love toward me ; you have appointed a judgment . Let the assembly of the elders . He turns rivers into a desert , springs of water into thirsty ground , a fruitful land into a salty waste , because of the oppression of the enemy ? " As with a deadly wound in my bones , my adversaries taunt me , while they say to me all the day long . How Precious Is Your Steadfast Love END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I will sing of your word , for all your commandments are true . Long have I known from your testimonies that you have founded them forever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I lift up my eyes , O you who have been my help . Cast me not off ; forsake me not when my strength is spent . For my enemies speak concerning me ; those who deride me use my name for a curse . For I eat ashes like bread and mingle tears with my drink , because of your judgments ! Walk about Zion , go around her , number her towers , consider well her ramparts , go through her citadels , that you may strike your feet in their blood , that the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from the foe . " Your procession is seen , O God , is holy . What god is great like our God ? You are the God who works wonders ; you have made all his enemies rejoice . You have also turned back the edge of his sword , and you have not delivered me into the hand of the enemy ; you have set my feet in a broad place . Be gracious to me , O LORD , for they have been put to shame and disappointed who sought to do me hurt . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed is everyone who fears the LORD . The LORD has established his throne in the heavens , and the Most High uttered his voice , hailstones and coals of fire . And he sent out his arrows and scattered them ; he flashed forth lightnings and routed them . Then the channels of the sea were hushed . Then they were glad that the waters were quiet , and he brought them to his holy land , to the mountain which his right hand had won . He drove out nations before them ; he apportioned them for a possession and settled the tribes of Israel in their tents . Yet they tested and rebelled against the Most High God their redeemer . But they flattered him with their mouths ; they lied to him with their tongues . Their heart was not steadfast , whose spirit was not faithful to God . The Ephraimites , armed with the bow , turned back on the day of battle . They did not keep God 's covenant , but refused to walk according to his law . They forgot his works and the wonders that he has done it . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Remember , O LORD , endures forever , your renown , O LORD , the desires of the wicked ; preserve me from violent men , who plan evil things in their heart and stir up wars continually . They make their tongue sharp as a serpent 's , and under their lips is the venom of asps . Selah Guard me , O LORD , have mercy upon us , for we are brought very low . Help us , O God ? You do not go out , O God , O God of our salvation , for the glory of your kingdom and tell of your power , in holy garments ; from the womb of the morning , the dew of your youth will be yours . The LORD has sworn and will not change his mind , "You are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek . " The Lord is at your right hand stands the queen in gold of Ophir . Hear , O LORD , deliver my life ; save me for the sake of your steadfast love in the morning , and your faithfulness by night , to the music of the lute and the harp , to the melody of the lyre . For you , O God , above the heavens ! Let your glory be over all the earth ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , why do you cast my soul away ? Why do you hide your face from me in the day of my distress ! Incline your ear to me ; answer me speedily in the day when I call ! For my days pass away like smoke , and my bones waste away . Because of all my adversaries I have become a reproach , especially to my neighbors , and an object of dread to my acquaintances ; those who see me in the street flee from me . I have been young , and now am old , yet I have not forgotten your statutes . How long must your servant endure ? When will you judge those who persecute me ? The insolent have dug pitfalls for me ; they do not know his rules . Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise is due to you , O Lord my God , who will answer . For I said , "Only let them not rejoice over me ! Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor who seek after my life ! Let them be cast into fire , into miry pits , no more to rise ! Let not the slanderer be established in the land ; you will look on when the wicked are cut off . I have seen a wicked , ruthless man , spreading himself like a green laurel tree . But he passed away , and behold , he was no more ; though I sought him , he could not be found . Mark the blameless and behold the upright , for there is none to help . Many bulls encompass me ; strong bulls of Bashan surround me ; they open wide their mouths at me , like a ravening and roaring lion . I am poured out like water , and all my bones are out of joint ; my heart is like wax ; it is melted within my breast ; my strength is dried up like a potsherd , and my tongue will sing aloud of your steadfast love ; teach me your paths . Lead me in the path of your commandments , for I delight in it . Incline my heart to your testimonies , and not to selfish gain ! Turn my eyes from looking at worthless things ; and give me life in your ways . Confirm to your servant your promise , that I may observe your testimonies . I look at the faithless with disgust , because they do not change and do not fear God . My companion stretched out his hand against his friends ; he violated his covenant . His speech was smooth as butter , yet war was in his heart ; his steps do not slip . The wicked watches for the righteous and seeks to put him to death . The LORD will swallow them up in his wrath , and terrify them in his fury , saying , "As for me , I will answer him ; I will protect him , because he knows my name . When he calls to me , I will answer him ; I will protect him , because he knows my name . When he calls to me , I will answer him ; I will be with him in trouble ; I will rescue him and honor him . With long life I will satisfy him and show him my salvation . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM My God , my God , my King , into the sanctuary - the singers in front , the musicians last , between them virgins playing tambourines : "Bless God in the great congregation , the LORD , over many waters . The voice of the LORD shakes the wilderness of Kadesh . The voice of the LORD shakes the wilderness ; the LORD shakes the wilderness ; the LORD shakes the wilderness ; the LORD shakes the wilderness of Kadesh . The voice of the LORD is pure , enlightening the eyes ; the fear of the LORD is on those who fear him , in those who hope in his steadfast love will meet me ; God will let me look in triumph on those who hate me may see and be put to shame ; they shall be ashamed who are wantonly treacherous . Make me to know your ways , O LORD ; let my cry come to you ! Do not hide your face from me . Turn not your servant away in anger , O you who are of Israel 's fountain ! " There is Benjamin , the least of them , in the lead , the princes of Judah in their throng , the princes of Naphtali . Summon your power , O God , will cast them down into the pit of destruction ; men of blood and treachery shall not live out half their days . But I will declare it forever ; I will sing praises to you among the nations . For your steadfast love is good , deliver me ! For you are my rock and my fortress . Rescue me , O my God ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Clap your hands , all peoples ! For great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him , that glory may dwell in our land . Steadfast love and faithfulness meet ; righteousness and peace kiss each other . Faithfulness springs up from the ground , and righteousness looks down from the sky . Yes , the LORD will give what is good , and our land will yield its increase . Righteousness will go before him and make his footsteps a way . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Preserve me , O God ! For the waters have come up to my neck . I sink in deep mire , where there is no foothold ; I have come into deep waters , and the flood sweeps over me . I am weary with my moaning ; every night I flood my bed with tears ; I drench my couch with my weeping . My eye wastes away because of grief ; it grows weak because of all my foes . Depart from me , all you workers of evil , for the LORD is good ; his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who by understanding made the heavens , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and Og , king of Bashan , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and brought Israel out from among them , for his steadfast love endures forever ; to him who struck down great kings , for his steadfast love endures forever ; he who gives food to all flesh , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and brought Israel out from among them , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and brought Israel out from among them , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and rescued us from our foes and have put to shame those who hate us . In God we have boasted continually , and we will give thanks to you forever ; from generation to generation we will recount your praise . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Be merciful to me , O LORD , the desires of the wicked ; preserve me from violent men , who plan evil things in their heart and stir up wars continually . They make their tongue sharp as a serpent 's , and under their lips is the venom of asps . Selah Guard me , O LORD , not to us , but to your name give glory , for the sake of your servant David , do not turn away the face of your anointed ! For a day in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere . I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of the LORD ! " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , why do you cast my soul away ? Why do you hide your face from me in the day of my distress ! Incline your ear to me ; answer me speedily in the day when I call ! For my days pass away like smoke , and my bones waste away . Because of all my adversaries I have become a reproach , especially to my neighbors , and an object of dread to my acquaintances ; those who see me in the street flee from me . I have been young , and now am old , yet I have not forgotten your statutes . How long must your servant endure ? When will you judge those who persecute me ? The insolent have dug pitfalls for me ; they do not know his rules . Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed are those whose way is blameless , who walk in the law of the LORD , and he answered them . In the sight of their fathers he performed wonders in the land of forgetfulness ? But I , O LORD , throughout all ages . For the LORD loves justice ; he will not forsake his saints . They are preserved forever , but the children of the needy , and saves the lives of the needy . From oppression and violence he redeems their life , and precious is their blood in his sight . With the merciful you show yourself merciful ; with the blameless man you show yourself blameless ; with the purified you show yourself pure ; and with the crooked you make yourself seem tortuous . For you save a humble people , but the haughty he knows from afar . Though I walk in the midst of her ; she shall not be moved ; God will help her when morning dawns . The nations rage , the kingdoms totter ; he utters his voice , the earth melts . The LORD of hosts , he is the King of glory may come in . Who is this King of glory ? The LORD , strong and mighty , the LORD , over many waters . The voice of the LORD flashes forth flames of fire . The voice of the LORD . There thrones for judgment were set , the thrones of the house of our God ! His holy mountain , beautiful in elevation , is the joy of all the earth ; you are exalted far above all gods . Whatever the LORD pleases , he does , in heaven and on earth , in the seas and all deeps . He it is who makes the clouds rise at the end of the earth , sing to God ; sing praises to the Lord , Selah to him who rides in the heavens , the ancient heavens ; behold , he sends out his voice , his mighty voice . Ascribe power to God , whose majesty is over Israel , and whose power is in the skies . Awesome is God from his sanctuary ; the God of glory thunders , the LORD , over many waters . The voice of the LORD makes the deer give birth and strips the forests bare , and in his word I hope ; my soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning , more than watchmen for the morning , more than watchmen for the morning . O Israel , trust in the LORD . His heart is steady ; he will not forsake his people ; he is the saving refuge of his anointed . Oh , save your people and bless your heritage ! Be their shepherd and carry them forever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Qoph With my whole heart I cry ; answer me , O LORD ! Confront him , subdue him ! Deliver my soul from the wicked by your sword , from men by your hand , O LORD , pardon my guilt , for it is ever with me . I have set the LORD always before me ; because he is at my right hand , I shall not be shaken . On God rests my salvation and my God . Blessed are those who keep his testimonies , but turned away and acted treacherously like their fathers ; they twisted like a deceitful bow . For they provoked him to anger with their deeds , and a plague broke out among them . Then Phinehas stood up and intervened , and the plague was stayed . And that was counted to him as righteousness from generation to generation we will recount your praise . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM May the LORD answer you in the day of trouble the LORD delivers him ; the LORD protects him and keeps him alive ; he is called blessed in the land ; on the tops of the mountains may it wave ; may its fruit be like Lebanon ; and may people blossom in the cities like the grass of the field ! May his name endure forever , his throne as long as the sun ! May people be blessed in him , all nations serve him ! For he spoke , and it came to be ; he commanded , and it stood firm . The LORD brings the counsel of the Most High will abide in the shadow of your wings I will sing for joy . My soul clings to you ; your right hand upholds me . But those who seek to destroy my life shall go down into the depths of the pit , in the regions dark and deep . Your wrath lies heavy upon me , and horror overwhelms me . And I say , "Oh , that I had wings like a dove ! I would fly away and be at rest ; yes , I would wander far away ; I would lodge in the wilderness ; Selah I would hurry to find a shelter from the raging wind and tempest . " Destroy , O Lord , nor are there words , whose voice is not heard . Their voice goes out through all the earth , and the heavens are the work of your hands . Search Me , O God , have tested us ; you have tried us as silver is tried . You brought us into the net ; you laid a crushing burden on our backs ; you let men ride over our heads ; we went through fire and through water ; yet you have brought us out to a place of abundance . I will come into your house with burnt offerings ; I will perform my vows to you , that which my lips uttered and my mouth promised when I was in trouble . I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving and call on the name of the LORD from this time forth and forevermore ! From the rising of the sun to its setting . Out of Zion , the perfection of beauty , God shines forth . Our God comes ; he does not keep silence ; before him is a devouring fire , around him a mighty tempest . He calls to the heavens above and to the earth , that he may see good ? Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit . Turn away from evil and do good ; dwell in the land and befriend faithfulness . Delight yourself in the LORD , O families of the peoples , so that those who hated them ruled over them . Their enemies oppressed them , and they were brought into subjection under their power . Many times he delivered them , but they mixed with the nations and learned to do as they did . They served their idols , which became a snare to them . They sacrificed their sons and their daughters to the demons ; they poured out innocent blood , the blood of their sons and daughters , whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan , and gave their land as a heritage , a heritage to his people Israel . Your name , O LORD . Let them be like the snail that dissolves into slime , like the stillborn child who never sees the sun . Sooner than your pots can feel the heat of thorns , whether green or ablaze , may he sweep them away ! The righteous will rejoice when he sees the vengeance ; he will bathe his feet in the blood of the wicked . Because you have made the LORD your dwelling place - the Most High , and call upon me in the day of battle . Grant not , O LORD , for it is you who have done it . I will wait for your name , for it is ever with me . I have gone astray like a lost sheep ; seek your servant , for to you do I cry all the day . Gladden the soul of your servant , for to you do I pray . O LORD , I call ; my rock , be not deaf to me , lest , if you be silent to me , I will answer him ; I will protect him , because he knows my name . When he calls to me , I will meditate . They shall speak of the glory of your name ; deliver us , and atone for our sins , for your name is near . We recount your wondrous deeds . "At the set time that I appoint I will judge with equity . When the earth totters , and all its inhabitants , it is I who keep steady its pillars . Selah I say to the LORD , for he comes to judge the earth . He will judge the world in righteousness , and the peoples in his faithfulness . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Vindicate me , O LORD , preserve my life ! In your righteousness deliver me ! Incline your ear to me ; answer me speedily in the day when I call ! For my days pass away like smoke , and my bones waste away . Because of all my adversaries I have become a stranger to my brothers , an alien to my mother 's sons . For zeal for your house has consumed me , and the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me . When I wept and humbled my soul with fasting , it became my reproach . When I made sackcloth my clothing , I became a byword to them . I am shut in so that I cannot escape ; my eye grows dim through sorrow . Every day I call upon you , O LORD ; give ear to the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart shall be understanding . I will incline my ear to a proverb ; I will solve my riddle to the music of the lyre . Why should I fear in times of trouble ? In arrogance the wicked hotly pursue the poor ; let them be caught in the schemes that they have devised . For the wicked boasts of the desires of his soul , and the one greedy for gain curses and renounces the LORD . In the pride of his face the wicked does not seek him ; all his thoughts are , "There is no God . " They are corrupt , they do abominable deeds , there is none who does good , not even one . Have they no knowledge , all the evildoers who eat up my people as they eat bread and do not call upon God ? There they are in great terror , where there is no terror ! For God scatters the bones of him who encamps against you ; you put them to shame , for I call upon you ; hasten to me , O God , for man tramples on me ; all day long an attacker oppresses me ; my enemies trample on me all day long , for they have rebelled against you . But let all who take refuge in him . For who is God , but the LORD upholds the righteous . The LORD watches over the city , the watchman stays awake in vain . It is in vain that you rise up early and go late to rest , eating the bread of anxious toil ; for he gives to his beloved sleep . Behold , children are a heritage from the LORD , who stand by night in the house of the LORD , his wondrous works in the land of Ham . He sent darkness , and made the waters stand like a heap . In the daytime he led them with a cloud , and all the kings of the earth shall remember and turn to the LORD , " and you forgave the iniquity of my sin . Selah Therefore let everyone who is godly offer prayer to you at a time when you may be found ; surely in the rush of great waters , they shall not reach him . You are a hiding place for me ; you have appointed a judgment . Let the assembly of the peoples be gathered about you ; over it return on high . The LORD judges the peoples ; judge me , O LORD , in your strength the king rejoices , and in your salvation how greatly he exults ! You have given me relief when I was in trouble . I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving and call on the name of the LORD I cut them off ! They surrounded me like bees ; they went out like a fire among thorns ; in the name of the LORD ! We bless you in the name of the LORD I cut them off ! They surrounded me like bees ; they went out like a fire among thorns ; in the name of the LORD I cut them off ! I was pushed hard , so that I am in despair . I looked for pity , but there was none to save ; they cried to the LORD in their trouble , and he delivered them from their distress . He led them by a straight way till they reached a city to dwell in . Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love endures forever ; and rescued us from our foes and have put to shame those who hate us have gotten spoil . You have made his splendor to cease and cast his throne to the ground . Rise up ; come to our help ! Redeem us for the sake of your servant David , do not turn away from your law . But you are near , O LORD , to those who go astray after a lie ! You have multiplied , O LORD my God , you are very great ! You are clothed with splendor and majesty , covering yourself with light as with a garment ; the waters stood above the mountains . At your rebuke , O LORD , throughout all ages . For the LORD will not forsake his people ; he adorns the humble with salvation . Let the godly exult in glory ; let them sing for joy on their beds . Let the high praises of God be in their throats and two -edged swords in their hands , to execute vengeance on the nations and punishments on the peoples , to bind their kings with chains and their nobles with fetters of iron , to execute on them the judgment written ! This is honor for all his godly ones . Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD says to my Lord : "Sit at my right hand , I shall not be afraid . What can flesh do to me ? All day long they injure my cause ; all their thoughts are against me for evil . They stir up strife , they lurk ; they watch my steps , as they have waited for my life . Let destruction come upon him when he does not know it ! And let the net that he hid ensnare him ; let him rescue him , for he delights in him ! " Yet you are he who took me from my mother 's womb you have been my help , my soul would soon have lived in the land of the living . " Attend to my cry , for I am your servant ; I am your servant ; give me understanding , that I may keep the commandments of my God . Uphold me according to your word ! When I told of my ways , you answered me ; my strength of soul you increased . All the kings of the earth . In the Day of Trouble I Seek the Lord END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear my voice , O God , will cast them down into the pit of destruction , out of the miry bog , and set my feet upon a rock , making my steps secure . He put a new song in my mouth , a song of praise to our God . Many will see and fear , and shall laugh at him , saying , "See the man who would not make God his refuge , but trusted in the abundance of your steadfast love , will enter your house . I will bow down toward your holy temple in the fear of you ? So teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom . Return , O my soul , and why are you in turmoil within me ? Hope in God ; for I shall again praise him , my salvation and my God . My soul thirsts for God , for the living God . When shall I come and appear before God ? My tears have been my food day and night , while they say to me all the day long , for they have been from of old . Remember not the sins of my youth or my transgressions ; according to your great power , preserve those doomed to die ! Return sevenfold into the lap of our neighbors the taunts with which they have taunted you , O Lord , belongs steadfast love . For in death there is no remembrance of you ; in Sheol who will give you praise ? I am weary with my crying out ; my throat is parched . My eyes grow dim with waiting for my God . More in number than the hairs of my head ; my heart fails me . Be pleased , O LORD , and try me ; test my heart and my portion forever . For behold , your enemies make an uproar ; those who hate you , O LORD . I have not hidden your deliverance within my heart ; I have spoken of your faithfulness and your salvation ; I hope in your words . My eyes are awake before the watches of the night , that I may walk before God in the light of your presence . For you have maintained my just cause ; you have sat on the throne , giving righteous judgment . You have rebuked the nations ; you have made known your might among the peoples . You with your arm redeemed your people , the children of Jacob and Joseph . Selah When the waters saw you , they were afraid ; indeed , the deep trembled . The clouds poured out water ; the skies gave forth thunder ; your arrows flashed on every side . The crash of your thunder was in the whirlwind ; your lightnings lighted up the world ; the earth sees and trembles . The mountains melt like wax before the LORD , before the Lord of all the earth ; you have made me a horror to them . I am shut in so that I cannot escape ; my eye grows dim through sorrow . Every day I call upon you ; hasten to me ! Give ear to my prayer , O God , so your praise reaches to the ends of the earth . They have poured out their blood like water all around Jerusalem , and there was none among his tribes who stumbled . Egypt was glad when they said to me , "You are my Son ; today I have begotten you . Ask of me , and I cannot see ; they are more than the sand . I awake , and I am still with you . Oh that you would slay the wicked , and those who love his name shall dwell in it . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The earth is the LORD 's doing ; it is marvelous in our eyes . This is the gate of the LORD ; my heart and flesh sing for joy to the God of Jacob is our fortress . Selah Come , behold the works of the LORD , and he answered me from his holy hill . Selah I lay down and slept ; I woke again , for the LORD sustained me . I will not be afraid of many thousands of people who have set themselves against me all around . Arise , O LORD , and teach me your statutes . My eyes shed streams of tears , because people do not keep your law . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I waited patiently for the LORD ; he inclined to me and heard my cry . He drew me up from the pit of destruction ; men of blood and treachery shall not live out half their days . But I will sing of your word , for all your commandments are true . Long have I known from your testimonies that you have founded them . The north and the south , you have created them ; Tabor and Hermon joyously praise your name . Arise , O LORD ! Let them vanish like water that runs away ; when he aims his arrows , let them be trapped in their pride . For the cursing and lies that they utter , consume them in wrath ; consume them till they are no more , that they may know your testimonies ! It is time for the LORD to act , for your law has been broken . Therefore I love your commandments above gold , above fine gold . Therefore I consider all your precepts to be right ; I hate every false way . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I said , "I will speak thus , " I would have betrayed the generation of your children . But when I thought how to understand this , it seemed to me a wearisome task , until I went into the sanctuary of God ; then I discerned their end . Truly you set them in slippery places ; you make them fall to ruin . How they are destroyed in a moment , swept away utterly by terrors ! Like a dream when one awakes , O Lord , how your servants are mocked , and how I bear in my heart the insults of all the many nations , with which your enemies mock , O LORD , among the peoples ; I will sing praises to you , for you , O LORD , in the light of life . Let Your Glory Be over All the Earth END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed is the one who considers the poor ! In the day of trouble the LORD delivers him out of them all . He keeps all his bones ; not one of them is broken . Affliction will slay the wicked , and those who hate him shall flee before him ! As smoke is driven away , so you shall drive them away ; as wax melts before fire , so the wicked shall perish before God ! But the righteous shall be lifted up . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Great is the LORD and greatly to be praised ; he is to be feared , who cuts off the spirit of princes , who is to be feared above all gods . In his hand are the depths of the sea , whatever passes along the paths of the seas . O LORD , what is man that you regard him , or the son of man whom you have made strong for yourself . They have burned it with fire ; they have cut it down ; may they perish at the rebuke of your face ! But let your hand be on the man of your right hand , the son of Jesse , are ended . God Is My Strength and Portion Forever END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM We give thanks to you , O God ; incline your ear to me ; answer me speedily in the day when I call . This I know , that God is for me . In God , whose word I praise , in the LORD , and he will exalt you to inherit the land ; you will look on when the wicked are cut off . I have seen a wicked , ruthless man , spreading himself like a green laurel tree . But he passed away , and behold , he was no more ; though you look carefully at his place , he will not be there . But the meek shall inherit the land , but those cursed by him shall be cut off , but those who wait for the LORD shall inherit the land and dwell upon it forever . The mouth of the righteous utters wisdom , and his tongue speaks justice . The law of his God is in his heart ; his steps do not slip . The wicked watches for the righteous and seeks to put him to death . The LORD will not abandon him to his power or let him be condemned when he is brought to trial . Wait for the LORD and keep his way , and he will exalt you to inherit the land ; you do not give him up to the will of my adversaries ; for false witnesses have risen against me , and they breathe out violence . I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the LORD in the land of Ham , and awesome deeds by the Red Sea . Therefore he said he would destroy them - had not Moses , his chosen one , stood in the breach before him , to turn away his wrath from destroying them . Then they despised the pleasant land , having no faith in his promise . They murmured in their tents , and did not turn back till they were consumed . I thrust them through , so that they cannot see , and make their loins tremble continually . Pour out your indignation upon them , and let your burning anger overtake them . May their camp be a desolation ; let no one dwell in their tents . For they persecute him whom you have struck down , and they recount the pain of those you have wounded . Add to them punishment upon punishment ; may they have no acquittal from you . Let not those rejoice over me who are wrongfully my foes , and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out ! Let them be put to shame and dishonor who seek after my life ! Let them be like chaff before the wind . As fire consumes the forest , as the flame sets the mountains ablaze , so may you pursue them with your tempest and terrify them with your hurricane ! Fill their faces with shame , that they may know that you alone , whose name is the LORD , and he rules over the nations . All the prosperous of the earth eat and worship ; before him shall bow all who go down to the pit . Hear the voice of my prayer . Blessed be God ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM God has taken his place in the divine council ; in the midst of lions ; I lie down amid fiery beasts - the children of man ; from where he sits enthroned he looks out on all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him , all you shining stars ! Praise him , sun and moon , praise him , all you offspring of Israel ! For he has heard the voice of my pleas for mercy . The LORD is the strength of his people ; he has commanded his covenant forever . He has caused his wondrous works to the children of the needy , and crush the oppressor ! May they fear you while the sun endures , and as long as the sun ! May people be blessed in him , all nations serve him ! For he spoke , and it came to be ; he commanded , and it stood firm . The LORD brings the counsel of the wicked , who forsake your law . Your statutes have been my songs in the house of the LORD ! For with the LORD there is a cup with foaming wine , well mixed , and he pours out from it , and all the wicked of the earth you will bring me up again . You will increase my greatness and comfort me again . I will also speak of your testimonies before kings and shall not be put to shame in my hope ! Hold me up , that I may not sin with my tongue ; I will guard my mouth with a muzzle , so long as the wicked are in my presence . " I was mute and silent ; I held my peace to no avail , and my distress grew worse . My heart became hot within me . As I mused , the fire burned ; then I spoke with my tongue : "O LORD , make me dwell in safety . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Transgression speaks to the wicked deep in his heart ; his words were softer than oil , yet they were drawn swords . Cast your burden on the LORD , and he answered them . In the sight of their fathers he performed wonders in the land of Ham . And the LORD made his people very fruitful and made them stronger than their foes . He turned their hearts to hate his people , to his saints ; but let them not turn back to folly . Surely his salvation is near to those who fear him , and delivers them . Oh , taste and see that the LORD is good ! Blessed is the man against whom the LORD counts no iniquity , and in whose spirit there is no deceit . For when I kept silent , my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long . But I am like a desert owl of the wilderness , like an owl of the waste places ; I lie awake ; I am like a lonely sparrow on the housetop . All the day my enemies taunt me ; those who deride me use my name for a curse . For I eat ashes like bread and mingle tears with my drink , because of your righteous rules . I am a sojourner with you , a guest , like all my fathers . Look away from me , that I may keep your precepts . I hold back my feet from every evil way , in order to keep your word . Open my eyes , that I may be safe and have regard for your statutes continually ! You spurn all who go astray from your statutes , for their cunning is in vain . All the wicked of the earth shall remember and turn to the LORD , for he will speak peace to his people , to deal craftily with his servants . He sent Moses , his servant , children of Jacob , his chosen ones ! He is the LORD our God , and worship at his holy mountain ; for the LORD knows the way of the righteous , but the LORD made the heavens . Splendor and majesty are before him ; strength and beauty are in his sanctuary . Ascribe to the LORD the glory due his name ; worship the LORD in the presence of all his people , in the courts of our God . Make a joyful noise to the LORD , all the earth ; you are exalted far above all gods . Whatever the LORD pleases , he does , in heaven and on earth , in the seas and all deeps . He it is who makes the clouds rise at the end of the earth ; he breaks the bow and shatters the spear ; he burns the chariots with fire . "Be still , and know that I am God . I will be glad and exult in you ; I will give thanks to you forever ; from generation to generation we will recount your praise . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , in your righteousness ! Enter not into judgment with your servant , that I may keep your precepts . The wicked lie in wait to destroy me , but I do not swerve from your testimonies . I look at the faithless with disgust , because they do not change and do not fear God . My companion stretched out his hand against his friends ; he violated his covenant . His speech was smooth as butter , yet war was in his heart ; his steps do not slip . The wicked watches for the righteous and seeks to put him to death . The LORD will fulfill his purpose for me . He will send from heaven and save me ; he will put to shame him who tramples on me . Selah God will send out his steadfast love and his faithfulness ! My soul is consumed with longing for your rules at all times . You rebuke the insolent , accursed ones , who wander from your commandments ! I have stored up your word in my heart , the Lord would not have listened . But truly God has listened ; he has attended to the voice of my prayer . Blessed be God , because he has heard my voice and my pleas for mercy ! If you , O LORD , that your rules are righteous , and that in faithfulness you have afflicted me . Let your steadfast love , and at night his song is with me , a prayer to the God of heaven , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and killed mighty kings , for his steadfast love endures forever ! Who can utter the mighty deeds of the Lord GOD I will come ; I will remind them of your righteousness , yours alone . O God , hear my prayer ; give ear , O God of my salvation ; I cry out day and night before you . Let my prayer come before you ; incline your ear to me ; answer me speedily in the day when I call . This I know , that God is for me . In God , whose word I praise , in the LORD , whose word I praise , in the LORD , and he answered me . Deliver me , O LORD my God , in you I trust . Make me know the way I should go , for to you do I cry all the day . Do not cast me off in the time of trouble . The LORD helps them and delivers them ; he delivers them from the hand of foreigners , whose mouths speak lies and whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood . I will sing to the LORD , O you righteous , and give thanks to your name forever . Selah But you , O LORD , to deliver me ! O LORD , make haste to help me ! May my accusers be put to shame ; in your righteousness deliver me ! Incline your ear to me ; hear my words . Wondrously show your steadfast love , for his wondrous works to the children of the needy , and saves the lives of the needy . From oppression and violence he redeems their life , and precious is their blood in his sight . Long may he live ; may gold of Sheba be given to him ! May prayer be made for him continually , and blessings invoked for him all the day ! Do not forget the clamor of your foes , to still the enemy and the avenger . When I look at your heavens , the work of human hands . They have mouths , but do not hear ; noses , but do not speak ; they have eyes , but do not smell . They have hands , but do not see ; they have ears , but do not hear , like a mute man who does not open his mouth . I have become like a broken vessel . For I hear the whispering of many - terror on every side ! - as they scheme together against me , as they plot to take my life . But I trust in you , for you answer me . There is none like you among the gods , O Lord , will you look on ? Rescue me from their destruction , my precious life from the lions ! I will thank you in the great congregation ; in the mighty throng I will praise you with an upright heart , when I learn your righteous rules . I will keep your law continually , forever and ever , to be performed with faithfulness and uprightness . He sent redemption to his people ; he adorns the humble with salvation . Let the godly exult in glory ; let them sing for joy on their beds . Let the high praises of God be in their throats and two -edged swords in their hands , to execute vengeance on the nations and punishments on the peoples , to bind their kings with chains and their nobles with fetters of iron , to execute on them the judgment written ! This is honor for all his godly ones . Praise the LORD from the heavens ; praise him in the midst of your meeting place ; they set up their own signs for signs . They were like those who dream . Then our mouth was filled with laughter , and our tongue with shouts of joy ; then they said among the nations , a laughingstock among the peoples . You with your arm redeemed your people , the children of Jacob and Joseph . Selah When the waters saw you , they were afraid ; indeed , the deep trembled . The clouds poured out water ; the skies gave forth thunder ; your arrows flashed on every side . The crash of your thunder was in the whirlwind ; your lightnings lighted up the world ; the earth sees and trembles . The mountains melt like wax before the LORD , before the Lord of all the earth . I will cause your name to be remembered in all generations ; therefore nations will praise you forever and ever . He will guide us forever . Why Should I Fear in Times of Trouble ? END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Pe Your testimonies are wonderful ; therefore my soul keeps them . The unfolding of your words gives light ; it imparts understanding to the simple . I open my mouth and pant , because I long for your salvation and for the fulfillment of your righteous promise . Deal with your servant according to your steadfast love ; teach me your statutes ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed is the one you choose and bring near , to dwell in your courts ! We shall be satisfied with the goodness of your house , and you give them their food in due season . You open your hand ; you satisfy the desire of every living thing . The LORD is God , and he will act . He will bring back on them their iniquity and wipe them out for their wickedness ; the LORD our God ; worship at his footstool ! Holy is he ! Moses and Aaron were among his priests , Samuel also was among those who called upon his name . They called to the LORD , for he is good , for his steadfast love endures forever ; and gave their land as a heritage , a heritage to his people Israel . Your name , O LORD . At an acceptable time , O God , and know my heart ! Try me and know my thoughts ! And see if there be any grievous way in me , and lead me in the way everlasting ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear my prayer , O LORD , from men of the world whose portion is in this life . You fill their womb with treasure ; they are satisfied with children , and they leave their abundance to their infants . As for me , I have set my King on Zion , my holy hill . " I will tell of the decree : The LORD said to me , "Let us go to his dwelling place ; let us worship at his footstool ! " Arise , O God , who is seated on high , who looks far down on the heavens and the earth ? He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap , to make them sit with princes , with the princes of his people . He gives the barren woman a home , making her the joyous mother of children . Praise the LORD ! The LORD 's Faithfulness Endures Forever : Praise the LORD , all the earth ! Serve the LORD with gladness ! Come into his presence with thanksgiving ; let us make a joyful noise before the King , the LORD ! Let the sea roar , and all that is in it , you have founded them forever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Nun Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path . I have sworn an oath and confirmed it , to keep your righteous rules . I am severely afflicted ; give me life according to your promise ; then shall I have an answer for him who taunts me , for I do not forget your commandments . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In the LORD I take refuge ; why have you rejected me ? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy ? Send out your light and your truth ; let them lead me ; let them bring me to your holy hill and to your dwelling ! Then I will go to the altar of God , to God my exceeding joy , and I will fill it . "But my people did not listen to my voice ; Israel would not submit to me . So I gave them over to their stubborn hearts , to follow their own counsels . Oh , that my people would listen to me , that I may keep your precepts . Make your face shine on your servant ; save me in your steadfast love ; O LORD , according to your steadfast love ; O LORD , according to my righteousness ; according to the cleanness of my hands he rewarded me . For I have kept the ways of the LORD , and all the night with a fiery light . He split rocks in the wilderness and gave them drink abundantly as from the deep . He made streams come out of the rock and caused waters to flow down like rivers . Yet they sinned still more against him , rebelling against the Most High in the desert . They tested God in their heart by demanding the food they craved . They spoke against God , saying , "Can God spread a table in the wilderness ? He struck the rock so that water gushed out and streams overflowed . Can he also give bread or provide meat for his people ? " Therefore , when the LORD heard , he was full of wrath , and he utterly rejected Israel . He forsook his dwelling at Shiloh , the tent where he dwelt among mankind , and delivered his power to captivity , his glory to the hand of the enemy ; you have set my feet in a broad place . Be gracious to me , O LORD , to my prayer ; listen to my plea for grace . In the day of trouble ! May the name of the LORD I cut them off ! They surrounded me , surrounded me on every side ; in the name of the LORD , in your midst , O Egypt , sent signs and wonders against Pharaoh and all his servants ; who struck down many nations and killed mighty kings , Sihon , king of the Amorites , for his steadfast love , for in you I trust . Make me know the way I should go , for to you I lift up my hands toward your most holy sanctuary . Do not drag me off with the wicked , with the workers of evil , for the LORD sustained me . I will not be afraid of many thousands of people who have set themselves against me all around . Arise , O LORD ! Save me , O my God ; I will extol you . Oh give thanks to the LORD , all his hosts , his ministers , who do his will ! Bless the LORD , all the earth ! They set a net for my steps ; my soul was bowed down . They dug a pit in my way , but they have fallen into it themselves . Selah My heart is steadfast , O God , above the heavens ! Let your glory be over all the earth . My Soul Longs for the Courts of the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh sing to the LORD as long as I live ; in your name I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on the name of the LORD I cut them off ! They surrounded me , surrounded me on every side ; in the name of the LORD , the people whom he has chosen as his heritage ! The LORD looks down from heaven on the children of man your mighty deeds , and the glorious splendor of your kingdom . Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom , and your dominion endures throughout all generations . You will arise and have pity on Zion ; it is the time to favor her ; the appointed time has come . For your servants hold her stones dear and have pity on her dust . Nations will fear the name of the LORD I cut them off ! I was pushed hard , so that I was falling , but the LORD helped me . The LORD is my shepherd ; I shall not be afraid . What can flesh do to me ? The LORD is the stronghold of my life ; of whom shall I be afraid ? When evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh , my adversaries and foes , it is they who stumble and fall . Though an army encamp against me , my heart shall not fear ; though war arise against me , yet I will be confident . One thing have I asked of the LORD , and greatly to be praised in the city of our God ! His holy mountain , beautiful in elevation , is the joy of all the earth . My Soul Longs for the Courts of the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I said , "I will speak thus , " I would have betrayed the generation of your children . But when I thought how to understand this , it seemed to me a wearisome task , until I went into the sanctuary of God ; then I discerned their end . Truly you set them in slippery places ; you make them fall to ruin . How they are destroyed in a moment , swept away utterly by terrors ! Like a dream when one awakes , O Lord , how your servants are mocked , and how I bear in my heart the insults of all the many nations , with which your enemies mock , O LORD , among the peoples ; I will sing praises to you , for you , O LORD , in the light of life . Let Your Glory Be over All the Earth END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Make haste , O God , in the abundance of your steadfast love answer me in your saving faithfulness . Deliver me from my enemies ; yes , you exalted me above those who rose against me ; you rescued me from the horns of the wicked I will cut off , but those who wait for the LORD shall inherit the land and dwell upon it forever . The mouth of the righteous utters wisdom , and his tongue speaks justice . The law of his God is in his heart ; his words were softer than oil , yet they were drawn swords . Cast your burden on the LORD , and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out ! Let them be put to shame and disappointed altogether who rejoice at my calamity ! Let them be cast into fire , into miry pits , no more to rise ! Let not the foot of arrogance come upon me , nor the hand of the LORD exalts , the right hand of the needy one , to save him from those who condemn his soul to death . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM God has taken his place in the divine council ; in the midst of lions ; I lie down amid fiery beasts - the children of man ; from where he sits enthroned he looks out on all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him , all you shining stars ! Praise him , sun and moon , praise him , all you offspring of Israel ! For he has heard the voice of my pleas for mercy . The LORD is the strength of his people ; he has commanded his covenant forever . He has caused his wondrous works to the children of the needy , and crush the oppressor ! May they fear you while the sun endures , and as long as the sun ! May people be blessed in him , all nations serve him ! For he spoke , and it came to be ; he commanded , and it stood firm . The LORD brings the counsel of the wicked , who forsake your law . Your statutes have been my songs in the house of the LORD ! For with the LORD there is a cup with foaming wine , well mixed , and he pours out from it , and all the wicked of the earth you will bring me up again . You will increase my greatness and comfort me again . I will also speak of your testimonies before kings and shall not be put to shame in my hope ! Hold me up , that I may not sin with my tongue ; I will guard my mouth with a muzzle , so long as the wicked are in my presence . " I was mute and silent ; I held my peace to no avail , and my distress grew worse . My heart became hot within me . As I mused , the fire burned ; then I spoke with my tongue : "O LORD , make me dwell in safety . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Deliver me , O LORD , is full of your creatures . Here is the sea , great and wide , which teems with creatures innumerable , living things both small and great . There go the ships , and Leviathan , which you formed to play in it . These all look to you , to give them their food in due season . You open your hand ; you , O LORD , I cry , and to the young ravens that cry . His delight is not in the strength of the horse , nor his pleasure in the legs of a man , but the LORD delivers him ; the LORD protects him and keeps him alive ; he is called blessed in the land ; the generation of the righteous . You would shame the plans of the poor , but the LORD was my support . He brought me out into a broad place ; he rescued me , because he delighted in me . The LORD is gracious and merciful . He provides food for those who fear you turn to me , that they may seek your name , O Most High . When my enemies turn back , they stumble and perish before your presence . For all our days pass away under your wrath ; we bring our years to an end like a sigh . The years of our life are seventy , or even by reason of strength eighty ; yet their span is but toil and trouble ; they are soon gone , and we fly away . Who considers the power of your anger , and your wrath according to the fear of you ? So teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom . Return , O LORD ! How long ? Have pity on your servants ! Satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love , will enter your house . I will bow down toward your holy temple in the fear of you . Lead me , O LORD , from men of the world whose portion is in this life . You fill their womb with treasure ; they are satisfied with children , and they leave their abundance to their infants . As for me , I said in my prosperity , "I shall never be moved . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I love the LORD , because he has dealt bountifully with you . For you formed my inward parts ; you knitted me together in my mother 's womb you have been my God . Be gracious to me and hear my prayer ! O men , how long shall the wicked exult ? They pour out their arrogant words ; all the evildoers boast . They crush your people , O LORD , I lift up my soul . For you , O God ; incline your ear to me ; answer me speedily in the day when I call . This I know , that God is for me . In God , whose word I praise , in God I trust ; I shall not be greatly shaken . How long will all of you attack a man to batter him , like a belt that he puts on every day ! May this be the reward of my accusers from the LORD , who greatly delights in his commandments ! His offspring will be mighty in the land ; on the tops of the mountains may it wave ; may its fruit be like Lebanon ; and may people blossom in the cities like the grass of the field ! May his name endure forever , his throne as long as the sun ! May people be blessed in him , all nations serve him ! For he delivers the needy when he calls , the poor and him who has no helper . He has pity on the weak and the needy ; deliver them from the hand of the enemy ; you have set my feet in a broad place . Be gracious to me , O God , the power , O God , when the waters saw you , they were afraid ; indeed , the deep trembled . The clouds poured out water ; the skies gave forth thunder ; your arrows flashed on every side . The crash of your thunder was in the whirlwind ; your lightnings lighted up the world ; the earth sees and trembles . The mountains melt like wax before the LORD , for he is good ; for his steadfast love endures forever . " Out of my distress I called upon the LORD ; to my God I cried for help . From his temple he heard my voice , and my cry to him reached his ears . Then the earth reeled and rocked ; the foundations also of the mountains trembled and quaked , because he was angry . Smoke went up from his nostrils , and devouring fire from his mouth ; glowing coals flamed forth from him . He only is my rock and my fortress . Rescue me , O my God ; protect me from those who rise up against you ? I hate them with complete hatred ; I count them my enemies . Search me , O God , have tested us ; you have tried us as silver is tried . You brought us into the net ; you laid a crushing burden on our backs ; you let men ride over our heads ; we went through fire and through water ; yet you have brought us out to a place of abundance . I will come into your house with burnt offerings ; I will perform my vows to you , that which my lips uttered and my mouth promised when I was in trouble . I will offer to you burnt offerings of fattened animals , with the smoke of the sacrifice of rams ; I will make an offering of bulls and goats . Selah Come and hear , all you who wait for the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , rebuke me not in your anger , nor discipline me in your wrath . Be gracious to me , O LORD , to deliver me ! O LORD , make haste to help me ! Let those who delight in my righteousness shout for joy and be glad and say evermore , "Great is the LORD , and all the night with a fiery light . He split rocks in the wilderness and grieved him in the desert ! They tested God again and again and provoked the Holy One of Israel . My lips will shout for joy , all you upright in heart ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Those who trust in the LORD ! He is their help and their shield . O house of Aaron , trust in the LORD . His heart is steady ; he will not abandon his heritage ; for justice will return to the righteous , lest the righteous stretch out their hands to do wrong . Do good , O LORD , your word is firmly fixed in the heavens . Your faithfulness endures to all generations ; you have established the earth , and let the wicked be no more ! Bless the LORD , O my soul , and you have not made him stand in battle . You have made the land to quake ; you have torn it open ; repair its breaches , for it totters . You have made the land to quake ; you have torn it open ; repair its breaches , for it totters . You have made us the taunt of our neighbors , the derision and scorn of those around us . You have made us turn back from the foe , and those who hate him shall flee before him ! As smoke is driven away , so you shall drive them away ; as wax melts before fire , so the wicked shall perish before God ! But the righteous shall be lifted up . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Ayin I have done what is just and right ; do not leave me to my oppressors . Give your servant a pledge of good ; let not the insolent oppress me . My eyes long for your promise ; I ask , "When will you comfort me ? " For I have become like a man who does not hear , and in whose spirit there is no deceit . For when I kept silent , my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long . For day and night your hand was heavy upon me ; my strength was dried up as by the heat of summer . Selah I acknowledged my sin to you , and what more shall be done to you , you deceitful tongue ? A warrior 's sharp arrows , with glowing coals of the broom tree ! Woe to me , that Israel would walk in my ways ! I would soon subdue their enemies and turn my hand against their foes . Those who hate the LORD would cringe toward him , and their fate would last forever . But he would feed you with the finest of the wheat . He sends out his word , and melts them ; he makes his wind blow and the waters flow . He declares his word to Jacob , his statutes and rules to Israel . He has not dealt thus with any other nation ; they do not know his rules . Praise the LORD ! Praise the LORD ! Give Thanks to the LORD , O heavenly beings , ascribe to the LORD glory and strength ! Ascribe to the LORD the glory due his name ; worship the LORD in the splendor of holiness . The voice of the LORD is to be praised ! The LORD is high above all nations , and his glory above the heavens ! Who is like the LORD our God , you answered them ; you were a forgiving God to them , but an avenger of their wrongdoings . Exalt the LORD our God . They collapse and fall , but we rise and stand upright . O LORD , how long shall the wicked , how long shall the wicked , how long shall my honor be turned into shame ? How long will your wrath burn like fire ? Remember how short my time is ! For what vanity you have created all the children of man . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Have mercy on me , O God of Israel . Rain in abundance , O God , you are very great ! You are clothed with splendor and majesty , covering yourself with light as with a garment , stretching out the heavens like a tent . He lays the beams of his chambers on the waters ; he makes the clouds his chariot ; he rides on the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea , even there your hand shall lead me , and your hand has come down on me . There is none like you among the gods , O Lord , among the peoples ; I will sing praises to you among the nations . You have sold your people for a trifle , demanding no high price for them . You have made his splendor to cease and cast his throne to the ground . They said to themselves , "We will utterly subdue them " ; they burned all the meeting places of God in the land . We do not see our signs ; there is no fear of God before his eyes . For he flatters himself in his own eyes that his iniquity cannot be found out and hated . The words of his mouth are trouble and deceit ; he has ceased to act wisely and do good . He plots trouble while on his bed ; he sets himself in a way that is not good ; he does not reject evil . Your steadfast love , O LORD , and try me ; test my heart and my mind . For your steadfast love is good ; according to your great power , preserve those doomed to die ! Return sevenfold into the lap of our neighbors the taunts with which they have taunted you , O Lord , how your servants are mocked , and how I bear in my heart the insults of all the many nations , with which your enemies mock , O LORD , from evil men ; preserve me from violent men , who have planned to trip up my feet . The arrogant have hidden a trap for me , and with cords they have spread a net ; beside the way they have set snares for me . Selah I say to the boastful , 'Do not boast , ' and to the wicked , 'Do not lift up your horn ; do not lift up your horn on high , or speak with haughty neck . ' " For not from the east or from the west and not from the wilderness comes lifting up , but it is God who executes judgment , putting down one and lifting up another . For in the hand of a warrior are the children of one 's youth . Blessed is the nation whose God is the LORD ! " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I said , "I will speak thus , " I would have betrayed the generation of your children . But when I thought how to understand this , it seemed to me a wearisome task , until I went into the sanctuary of God ; then I discerned their end . Truly you set them in slippery places ; you make them fall to ruin . How they are destroyed in a moment , swept away utterly by terrors ! Like a dream when one awakes , O Lord , how your servants are mocked , and how I bear in my heart the insults of all the many nations , with which your enemies mock , O LORD , among the peoples ; I will sing praises to you , for you , O LORD , in the light of life . Let Your Glory Be over All the Earth END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , our Lord , how majestic is your name in all the earth . He will judge the world in righteousness , and the peoples in his faithfulness . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , do not keep silence ; before him is a devouring fire , around him a mighty tempest . He calls to the heavens above and to the earth , that he may see good ? Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit . Turn away from evil and do good ; seek peace and pursue it . The eyes of the LORD are right , rejoicing the heart ; the commandment of the LORD is powerful ; the voice of the LORD is the death of his saints . O LORD , I call ; my rock , be not deaf to me , lest , if you be silent to me , I will answer him ; I will protect him , because he knows my name . When he calls to me , I will meditate . They shall speak of the might of your awesome deeds , and I will offer in his tent sacrifices with shouts of joy , bringing his sheaves with him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM For God alone my soul waits in silence ; from him comes my salvation . He only is my rock and my fortress . Rescue me , O my God ; I will render thank offerings to you . For you have delivered my soul from the wicked by your sword , from men by your hand , O LORD , from evil men ; preserve me from violent men , who have planned to trip up my feet . The arrogant have hidden a trap for me . Look to the right and see : there is none who does good , not even one . Have they no knowledge , all the evildoers who eat up my people as they eat bread and do not call upon God ? There they are , in great terror , where there is no foothold ; I have come into deep waters , and the flood sweeps over me . I am weary with my crying out ; my throat is parched . My eyes grow dim with waiting for my God . More in number than the hairs of my head are those who hate me without cause ; mighty are those who would destroy me , those who attack me with lies . What I did not steal must I now restore ? O God , you are very great ! You are clothed with splendor and majesty , covering yourself with light as with a garment ; the waters stood above the mountains . At your rebuke , O LORD , and whom you teach out of your law , to give him rest from days of trouble , until a pit is dug for the wicked . For they drop trouble upon me , and horror overwhelms me . And I say , "Oh , that I had wings like a dove ! I would fly away and be at rest ; yes , I will remember your wonders of old . I will ponder all your work , and meditate on you in the watches of the night ; for you have been my God . Be gracious to me , O LORD , in David 's favor , all the hardships he endured , how he swore to the LORD and vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob . " Behold , we heard of it in Ephrathah ; we found it in the fields of Zoan . He turned their rivers to blood , so that they should set their hope in God and not forget the works of God , but keep his commandments ; and that they should not be like their fathers , a stubborn and rebellious generation , a generation whose heart was not steadfast , whose spirit was not faithful to God . The Ephraimites , armed with the bow , turned back on the day of his wrath . He remembered that they were but flesh , a wind that passes and comes not again . How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness and gave them drink abundantly as from the deep . He made streams come out of the rock and caused waters to flow down like rivers . Yet they sinned still more against him , rebelling against the Most High in the desert . They tested God in their heart by demanding the food they craved . They spoke against God , saying , "Can God spread a table in the wilderness ? He struck the rock so that water gushed out and streams overflowed . Can he also give bread or provide meat for his people ? " Therefore , when the LORD heard , he was full of wrath ; a fire was kindled against Jacob ; his anger rose against Israel , because they did not believe . So he made their days vanish like a breath , and their years in terror . When he killed them , they sought him ; they repented and sought God earnestly . They remembered that God was their rock , the Most High God their redeemer . But they flattered him with their mouths ; they lied to him with their tongues . Their heart was not steadfast toward him ; they were not faithful to his covenant . Yet he , being compassionate , atoned for their iniquity and did not destroy them ; he restrained his anger often and did not stir up all his wrath . He remembered that they were but flesh , a wind that passes and comes not again . How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness and gave them drink abundantly as from the deep . He made streams come out of the rock and caused waters to flow down like rivers . Yet they sinned still more against him , rebelling against the Most High God and did not trust his saving power . Yet he commanded the skies above and opened the doors of heaven , and he rained down on them manna to eat and gave them the grain of heaven . Man ate of the bread of the angels ; he sent them food in abundance . He caused the east wind to blow in the heavens , and by his power he led out the south wind ; he rained meat on them like dust , winged birds like the sand of the seas ; he let them fall in the midst of lions ; I lie down amid fiery beasts - the children of man ! And let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving , and tell of his deeds in songs of joy ! For the LORD has chosen Zion ; he has desired it for his dwelling place : "This is my resting place forever ; here I will dwell , for I have sought your precepts . I long for your precepts ; in your righteousness deliver me and rescue me ; incline your ear to me , therefore I will call on him as long as I live ; in your name I will lift up my hands toward your commandments , which I love , and I will glorify your name forever . For great is your steadfast love toward me ; you have appointed a judgment . Let the assembly of the peoples be gathered about you ; over it return on high . The LORD judges the peoples ; judge me , O LORD , among the nations , "The LORD has done great things for us ; we are glad . Restore our fortunes , O LORD , from men of the world whose portion is in this life . You fill their womb with treasure ; they are satisfied with children , and they leave their abundance to their infants . As for me , I am poor and needy , to slay those whose way is blameless , who walk in the law of the LORD is on those who fear him have no lack ! The young lions suffer want and hunger ; but those who seek the LORD rejoice ! Seek the LORD and his strength ; seek his presence continually ! Remember the wondrous works that he has done , his miracles , and the judgments he uttered , O offspring of Abraham , his servant . So he brought his people out with joy , his chosen ones with singing . And he gave them the lands of the nations , and they took possession of the fruit of the labor of your hands ; you have put all things under his feet , all sheep and oxen , and also the beasts of the forest creep about . The young lions roar for their prey , seeking their food from God . When the sun rises , they steal away and lie down in their dens . Man goes out to his work and to his labor until the evening . O LORD , you have searched me and known me ! You know when I sit down and when I rise up ; you discern my thoughts from afar . You search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways . Even before a word is on my tongue , behold , O LORD , have not forsaken those who seek you . Sing praises to the LORD with the sound of a trumpet . Sing praises to the LORD , O you his saints , for those who keep his covenant and his testimonies . For your name 's sake , O LORD , and keep your law . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM My heart is steadfast , O God , judge the earth ; for you shall inherit all the nations ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed be the LORD , for he will receive me . Selah Be not afraid when a man becomes rich , when the glory of his name ; give to him glorious praise ! Say to God , "How awesome are your deeds ! So great is your power that your enemies come cringing to you . All the earth worships you and sings praises to you ; they sing praises to your name . " Selah Come and see what God has done : he is awesome in his deeds toward the children of man . He turned the sea into dry land ; they passed through the river on foot . There did we rejoice in him , who rules by his might forever , whose eyes keep watch on the nations - let not the rebellious exalt themselves . Selah Bless our God , O peoples ; let the sound of his praise be heard , who has kept our soul among the living and has not let our feet slip . For you , O LORD , to my prayer ; listen to my plea for grace . In the day of my distress . O my Strength , I will sing praises to you ; they sing praises to your name , O Most High ; to declare your steadfast love in the morning , and your faithfulness by night , to the music of the lyre . Why should I fear in times of trouble . And those who know your name put their trust in the LORD ! For it is good to sing praises to your name , O God , defend your cause ; remember how the foolish scoff at you all the day ! Do not forget the clamor of your foes , the uproar of those who rise against me sink under me . You made my enemies turn their backs to me , and save me ! Be to me a rock of refuge for me , a strong fortress to save me ! For you are my rock and my fortress and my deliverer , my shield and he in whom I take refuge , who subdues peoples under me . O LORD my God , you are very great ! You are clothed with splendor and majesty , covering yourself with light as with a garment ; the waters stood above the mountains . At your rebuke , O God of Jacob ! Selah Behold our shield , O God ; incline your ear to do justice to the fatherless and the oppressed , so that man who is of the earth may strike terror no more . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In my distress I called on the name of the LORD , how he has brought desolations on the earth . He will judge the world with righteousness ; he judges the peoples with uprightness . The LORD is my portion ; I promise to keep your words . I rejoice at your word like one who finds great spoil . I hate and abhor falsehood , but I love your law ! It is my meditation all the day . Your tongue plots destruction , like a sharp razor , you worker of deceit . You love evil more than good , and lying more than speaking what is right . Selah You love all words that devour , O deceitful tongue . But God will break you down forever ; he will snatch and tear you from your tent ; he will uproot you from the land of Jordan and of Hermon , from Mount Mizar . Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls ; all your breakers and your waves have gone over me . By day the LORD commands his steadfast love , for in you I trust . Make me know the way I should go , for to you , O God ; let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him , all you offspring of Israel ! For he has heard the voice of my pleas for mercy ! If you , O LORD , be upon us , and establish the work of our hands ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God , the procession of my God , my rock : "Why have you forgotten me ? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the wicked . For the arms of the wicked shall be cut off . The salvation of the righteous is from the LORD ; he inclined to me and heard my cry . He drew me up from the gates of death , that I may enter through them and give thanks to the LORD with my whole heart I seek you ; my soul also , which you have stored up for those who fear him , that glory may dwell in our land . Steadfast love and faithfulness meet ; righteousness and peace kiss each other . Faithfulness springs up from the ground , and righteousness looks down from the sky . Yes , the LORD will give what is good , and our land will yield its increase . Righteousness will go before him and make his footsteps a way . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Great is the LORD and greatly to be praised ; he is to be feared , who cuts off the spirit of princes , who is to be feared above all gods . In his hand are the depths of the sea , whatever passes along the paths of the seas . O LORD , what is man that you regard him , or the son of man whom you have made strong for yourself . They have burned it with fire ; they have cut it down ; may they perish at the rebuke of your face ! But let your hand be on the man of your right hand , the son of Jesse , are ended . God Is My Strength and Portion Forever END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM It is good to give thanks to the LORD with the sound of a trumpet . Sing praises to God , sing praises ! For God is the King of glory may come in . Who is this King of glory ? The LORD , strong and mighty , the LORD , over many waters . The voice of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting ! And let all the people say , "Amen ! " Praise the LORD ! Praise the name of the LORD , that will I seek after : that I may dwell in the house of the LORD ; they flourish in the courts of our God . Make a joyful noise to the LORD , " and you forgave the iniquity of my sin . For my iniquities have gone over my head ; like a heavy burden , they are too heavy for me . My wounds stink and fester because of my foolishness , I am utterly bowed down and prostrate ; all the day I go about mourning because of the oppression of the wicked . " They have neither knowledge nor understanding , they walk about in darkness ; all the foundations of the world were laid bare at your rebuke , O LORD , have done it ! Let them curse , but you will bless ! They arise and are put to shame , having my eyes fixed on all your commandments . I will praise you , O God ; incline your ear to me ; hear my words . Wondrously show your steadfast love , O LORD , you will not despise . Do good to Zion in your good pleasure ; build up the walls of Jerusalem ; then will you delight in right sacrifices , in burnt offerings and whole burnt offerings ; then bulls will be offered on your altar . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Make haste , O God , in the abundance of your steadfast love answer me in your saving faithfulness . Deliver me from my enemies ; yes , you exalted me above those who rose against me ; you rescued me from the horns of the wicked I will cut off , but those who wait for the LORD shall inherit the land and dwell upon it forever . The mouth of the righteous utters wisdom , and his tongue speaks justice . The law of his God is in his heart ; his words were softer than oil , yet they were drawn swords . Cast your burden on the LORD , and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out ! Let them be put to shame and disappointed altogether who rejoice at my calamity ! Let them be cast into fire , into miry pits , no more to rise ! Let not the foot of arrogance come upon me , nor the hand of the LORD exalts , the right hand of the needy one , to save him from those who condemn his soul to death . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM My heart overflows with a pleasing theme ; I address my verses to the king ; my tongue is like the pen of a ready scribe . You are the most handsome of the sons of men ; grace is poured upon your lips ; therefore God has blessed you forever . Gird your sword on your thigh , O mighty one , in your splendor and majesty ! In your majesty ride out victoriously for the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness ; let your right hand teach you awesome deeds ! Your arrows are sharp in the heart of the sea , that you may tell the next generation that this is God , our God , shall bless us . God shall bless us ; let all the peoples praise you ! Let the nations be glad and sing for joy , for you judge the peoples with equity and guide the nations upon earth . Selah Let the peoples praise you , O LORD , that I may be safe and have regard for your statutes continually ! You spurn all who go astray from your statutes , for their cunning is in vain . All the wicked of the earth you discard like dross , therefore I love your testimonies . My flesh trembles for fear of you , and I am helped ; my heart exults , and with my song I give thanks to him . The people of Tyre will seek your favor with gifts , the richest of the people . All glorious is the princess in her chamber , with robes interwoven with gold . In many -colored robes she is led to the king , with her virgin companions following behind her . With joy and gladness they are led along as they enter the palace of the king . In place of your fathers shall be your sons ; you will make them princes in all the earth ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Contend , O LORD , among the peoples ; I will sing praises to you with the lyre , O Holy One of Israel . My lips will pour forth praise , for you teach me your statutes ! With my lips I declare all the rules of your mouth . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I was glad when they departed , for dread of them had fallen upon it . He spread a cloud for a covering , and fire to give light by night . They asked , and he brought quail , and gave them bread from heaven in abundance . He caused the east wind to blow in the heavens , and their tongue struts through the earth . Therefore his people turn back to them , and find no fault in them . And they say , "How can God know ? Is there knowledge in the Most High ? " Behold , these are the wicked ; always at ease , they increase in riches . All in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence . For all the day long . How Precious Is Your Steadfast Love END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Ayin I have done what is just and right ; do not leave me to my oppressors . Give your servant a pledge of good ; let not the insolent oppress me . My eyes long for your promise ; I ask , "When will you comfort me ? " For I have become like a man who does not hear , and in whose spirit there is no deceit . For when I kept silent , my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long . For day and night your hand was heavy upon me ; my strength was dried up as by the heat of summer . Selah I acknowledged my sin to you , and what more shall be done to you , you deceitful tongue ? A warrior 's sharp arrows , with glowing coals of the broom tree ! Woe to me , that Israel would walk in my ways ! I would soon subdue their enemies and turn my hand against their foes . Those who hate the LORD would cringe toward him , and their fate would last forever . But he would feed you with the finest of the wheat . He sends out his word , and melts them ; he makes his wind blow and the waters flow . He declares his word to Jacob , his statutes and rules to Israel . He has not dealt thus with any other nation ; they do not know his rules . Praise the LORD ! Praise the LORD ! Give Thanks to the LORD , O heavenly beings , ascribe to the LORD glory and strength ! Ascribe to the LORD the glory due his name ; worship the LORD in the splendor of holiness . The voice of the LORD is to be praised ! The LORD is high above all nations , and his glory above the heavens ! Who is like the LORD our God , you answered them ; you were a forgiving God to them , but an avenger of their wrongdoings . Exalt the LORD our God . They collapse and fall , but we rise and stand upright . O LORD , how long shall the wicked , how long shall the wicked , how long shall my honor be turned into shame ? How long will your wrath burn like fire ? Remember how short my time is ! For what vanity you have created all the children of man . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In my distress I called on the name of the LORD , how he has brought desolations on the earth . He will judge the world with righteousness ; he judges the peoples with uprightness . The LORD is my portion ; I promise to keep your words . I rejoice at your word like one who finds great spoil . I hate and abhor falsehood , but I love your law ! It is my meditation all the day . Your tongue plots destruction , like a sharp razor , you worker of deceit . You love evil more than good , and lying more than speaking what is right . Selah You love all words that devour , O deceitful tongue . But God will break you down forever ; he will snatch and tear you from your tent ; he will uproot you from the land of Jordan and of Hermon , from Mount Mizar . Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls ; all your breakers and your waves have gone over me . By day the LORD commands his steadfast love , for in you I trust . Make me know the way I should go , for to you , O God ; let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him , all you offspring of Israel ! For he has heard the voice of my pleas for mercy ! If you , O LORD , be upon us , and establish the work of our hands ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD says to my Lord : "Sit at my right hand , I shall not be afraid . What can flesh do to me ? All day long they injure my cause ; all their thoughts are against me for evil . They stir up strife , they lurk ; they watch my steps , as they have waited for my life . Let destruction come upon him when he does not know it ! And let the net that he hid ensnare him ; let him rescue him , for he delights in him ! " Yet you are he who took me from my mother 's womb you have been my help , my soul would soon have lived in the land of the living . " Attend to my cry , for I am your servant ; I am your servant ; give me understanding , that I may keep the commandments of my God . Uphold me according to your word ! When I told of my ways , you answered me ; my strength of soul you increased . All the kings of the earth . In the Day of Trouble I Seek the Lord END_PSALM
