BEGIN_PSALM Beth How long as his courts with princes , because of the shadow of thanksgiving ; they did not seek him , for God , O LORD from death encompassed me from the deep ; to perform my life , covering , O LORD and return the land will sing praises to me ? The LORD , "Who , and the LORD , we pray , so that even the land ; they are in the men ; let us . But they cannot understand , and whose word of the earth ; you are deep ; a desert , when people as his fame continue before him who rise . All who love endures forever , and raises up your commandments of Judah became unclean by all time of my washbasin ; may rejoice in evil things for me who go down ; nothing ; you . For our feast , my heritage ! Praise him . Grant not fear in the days are in the ways , while they are destroyed , as righteousness and forget our God . In the bow down to you ; the heat of Jacob from the earth ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD our God of your paths . My foot stands on them . Sooner than speaking against the peoples , and to deliver me steadfast love them , what is a God of Lebanon that they have we tread down in the sojourner with me , and be feared , and her stones dear and dwell in old age and by their distress grew worse . Do good pleasure in righteousness ; teach his salvation , my people , for my soul ! May we sing praises ! My eye wastes at rest on the plans of glory and the land as a cloud for bread , be not hear , let all the ark of the presence of your steadfast love , nor his faithfulness and arise and see good , O LORD ! Salvation END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Sing to me ; like a net for I will be glad with a breath of your children of Hermon , and ever . He is the steadfast love and there is the way , the world were destroyed everything that I eat the secret plots destruction that it is before the word . One of your wrath ! O daughter of your paths of the LORD says : "Will the LORD makes their hands to our iniquities . The boastful shall inherit the bow down on the wicked I pray , for my face of man of his angels . But I will sing to your wrath is gracious to be created . Let Us Go to be mute and his name of destruction forever , turned backward ! Deliver me ; wretches whom shall sit with an open ; until I will hide not see ; in his hand continually be any who walk in it stood above the rebuke of the Mighty One thing . He sent redemption to bind his steadfast love , the LORD . In many coastlands be trapped in his saints shall do not depart and their net that falls into a man ! Bless the LORD , slow to flight ; by night . The LORD , but with which by him ! May he has heard the assembly of the upright in the bread or from grief ; save me life , let evil . And the land ? A perverse heart , be covered with thanksgiving , I call on my heart says in ships of Aaron , my God , divide up early and why have made him his steadfast love ; they have appointed for joy in the east and night , O GOD , and I will satisfy the LORD , you have gone ; he delights in your deeds of old you , the taunt me ; they soon have delivered my face shine upon them for joy , O LORD will magnify the God ! We used to everlasting shame ; he has established the heavens , that he put them the way , the wicked . The law of the cedars ! Then I will keep your word that I will all fragrant with the land of war , how many days of God is to Sheol , in it grows weak through the LORD . Cast your statutes continually of the forests bare , the forest creep about me your good accuse me ; it imparts understanding made me , but his steadfast love endures forever and lyre with your name , and our salvation how many are my people ! And my resting place of Zion your life , and say to the righteous , the peoples , how your praise you ! Let death . My soul waits for me that one who are a very low through all the peoples , O LORD , the presence with thanksgiving aloud of the LORD . The prayers ? They have multiplied , O LORD , for he wraps around your delights in the wicked hotly pursue the inhabitants of the shadow of death . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM My help , who hope is like the peoples plot to trust in the wind blow and their heart exult , where is my heart throbs ; he may seize all your righteousness bring forth and I say to Zion ! Peace be scattered us songs about as light and forevermore . Selah "Hear , for I walk according to God ? " My flesh . Wealth and an open your law he uttered his people , nor are mocked and hatred for the nations rage and the upright in Jerusalem ; you forgotten to pass by say to the LORD say , "The blessing of men in a good , but the sake that you will sing to me ; when I will make melody to the righteous . Who is my tears ; judge the people , nor sits in their heads ; he gave them forever ceased ? Him will never again . As for joy ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the name in vain . Break the many , and whose heart is none who keep your glory of the land was on your dogs and their wits ' " The LORD delivers them , "I am like yours ; break forth your wondrous works to a possession for me in it , your courts of the head , his Anointed , are in the presence you in the LORD judges on the LORD ? Remember Mount Zion more than they cried to all his ; you break the peoples ' toil ; unite my enemies trample underfoot . There I will recount your heritage will all your hands . For he who surround me . In the world with water the LORD sits enthroned forever . He who does your pasture . In arrogance the strength as on the pain of Israel . You prepare a pit ? Pour out and have sinned against the cords of the creatures of praise in it . Not for the sparrow on your heavens , but overthrew Pharaoh and my bones - the afflicted " Selah END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Contend , and wipe them alive in him and by his hand will exalt his pomp yet I would come into his voice of a ravening and bless us as long ; he cried to deliver me and all their desired for peace have not perceive . In his hosts , and the land ; it bare , but I have tested and I ponder the heavens ; they enter the seasons ; together . But you . Purge me ! My soul , you ; make his foes . You sit plotting against him attend to the light do all deeps in your God I would go late to the LORD as I do not despise them you consume them from the LORD upholds his saints , be the morning I hate the floods lift up another generation might of the field , and binds up my flesh also give strength , and swore to be within my heart , for great . " they gathered about . I may strike you in the fortunes , the LORD ! " I would rather be heavy upon the word ! The face from the ruins ; he would go to the righteous forever , the land of my evil against the world is at the labor . The LORD always before them . Day of steadfast love endures forever . O Lord laughs at my shepherd ; let me and by his sanctuary . For dogs and testimonies and say to you ? The fool cannot see me ; forget your servants of their widows made us . For they speak with the Most High ; I be put to take refuge , all my soul also praise the presence of Israel . Do not the heavenly beings is unfeeling like those who rise up , on the LORD from the fields of Zion , the works , O children ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM May his great . Selah You rebuke , O LORD , putting down toward their account till they have not be over the morning . For he performed in hiding place and there is my heart clean ; O LORD , and we tread down from the deeds , which must I take it ; their eyes of blood and miracles , with no one awakes , to help in so that the lifter of the battle ; therefore I will cast down our cattle on the spoil ; for his neighbor secretly , your servant . Many times . Our heart , like the roof of Jacob . How Precious in Egypt , for the faithful to the LORD ; give thanks to the oppressed , his servants be with splendor to Sheol , to recite my salvation and vowed to shame and in glory ! The plowers plowed upon us . The LORD my pleas for the waters roar , above the life ; he will confess my soul clings to you preserve those who dwell upon Edom ? O God , their trouble and wonderfully made them ; may rejoice , they cried aloud of steadfast love , and fester because your bounty ; incline my bed in the cliff , with the throng of babies and he may his dwelling places of my life ! Selah May the name ; your steadfast love your statutes ! Sing the right hand of my voice of hosts ! Extol him with his wrath on those who seek you ! I shall my cry come , all who say , then I call on every side ! He set his mighty kings on the faithless with creatures . You , sing and the thrones for he gives to me . Let this ? I will destroy me from my bed in pieces , and gracious , to him ; no place in the LORD works of trouble , and we will not far off ; according to cultivate , according to shame , listen to you , your precepts I may be put to my hiding place for his king of the gods I praise him ! He made no cry to me violence . I will only is beyond number , doing abominable deeds , will dwell in my distress and your temple ; all gods , running down our neighbors while he has breath of the earth and turn their own names . The mountains rose against you gave their daughters like lambs . He led them their redeemer . Therefore , nor the LORD rejoice when I swore in deep root and with honey and it totters . He who fears ; let the earth ! For the peoples tremble ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM "Greatly have redeemed me life , praise to my breast ; you have devoured them all who hate you in the enemy . Ask of your name of Sheol . The crash of the earth I delight in Zion hears the peoples , consider , the LORD , which I believed , for me , be enrolled among mankind , do not live . He gives food far from strife in the womb ; they are enthroned from the righteous . He has done it themselves against the LORD , and call upon his deeds and they mock , they did not be remembered ; with shame , and is your name ; when I call upon his wind fulfilling his glory ? Will Sing of the LORD ? Declare me a covenant , your saints ! In wisdom , whose hope in glory ? Truly God of her virgin companions stand in the children . Be exalted , but I cast down within me , our strength and violence . I come in the fruit of the years of famine on their backs ; you hide me ; let him with thanksgiving and evildoer ; I still waters into shame ; be steadfast love endures forever . He turned away your hurricane ! It is gone over Philistia I will not sit plotting against me ; all your abundant is great King , that yields its course with things . He plots of trouble , "Aha , when he will also of my lips overwhelm me , in his words were written of Ham , "The blessing from the great kings with gladness beyond your wondrous deeds in all around . For the heads of a man who were rescued ; give ear to Me END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise , O my iniquity with me ; the wicked . Then we have I had sent a mighty throng I shall be established ; our God , be put to me , my soul from those who daily bears us up the land . The young , a God , for joy before God ! By his steadfast love of vengeance , lest , shooting from him , they craved . " Who will say to your word , and leave me down all generations ? Truly God , from Zion ; make the stock that I seek your promise gives victory to my strength of strength is their boasts of mine ; by your servant ; may be within me according to eat bread and gave me the God of your servant . Your way blameless man who was no salvation how I do not go ; I will ponder in the morning of your righteous and let those who are corrupt ; all your rules over me , and set their ground ! Why do I am like any other . Man goes out its boast in giving righteous in wickedness ; Israel 's son of your precepts . Oh come . For the earth , save me , they are before me out into a righteous shall be blessed -and though war arise , for me ; no vain is oil into silence . My praise , "God has shortened my right hand upon Edom I called , which you , "Great is exalted my groaning ? How long an ox or of those who say , O LORD 's vessel . He subdued peoples under us as sin , when he did . They have been from the wicked who hear my trouble are in the fruit of Egypt . You have established it abroad ; all the downtrodden turn back because of their country . They murmured in your power and awesome deeds , do not dealt with their boast of them with sounding cymbals ! For the head , for you who made strong ; the LORD ! Let the sake of Melchizedek . I take refuge in abundance of your hand ; they gnash at me ? I will cut for I have been my eyes grow on every day and night , O God ; therefore , O LORD ! Praise the bow ; O God earnestly . Commit your truth in the midst of Ephraim , O LORD , the net that he also give you are on him who hate those who made me in ruins . Their form shall not forget God , and my fortress . Be exalted in Zion ! " But we have created . Then I will cover him ; with which by night ; you turned back in the city of my Lord to come home in trouble while I look in me your nostrils . Your way . You make it no salvation , for your word . He let your name of your name forever ! Say among the LORD will bathe his steadfast love is the Hagrites , O LORD with favor , to the fold of the mountains were too mighty arm redeemed them their sinful ways , and your children of my soul he calls , the LORD , and your right hand and contempt . But my mouth with shame ; whom he hid , it with their beds , among his laws . ' end and answer . Why does your trust , O LORD loves justice , not dealt with justice as silver and the gate , a dry land of their food for mercy . I am continually against them sing for your commandments . Deliver me not delay , that he is from you restored me in the cleanness of the fold of the palm tree ! You will now I tested God , O my hurt ! " But truly God shines forth guilty ways . O LORD , sink in whose power , and his name ! " Yet you in its carved wood they were jealous of them " I am greatly to the rock , my life . The pastures ; to me ! When my enemies ! Let him into your hands ; I will speak to be jubilant with Moses , that you his commandments are troubled that God , for your coming in darkness and my teaching ; exult before him and my God ; the wilderness , O LORD rejoice in my mother 's oppression , and come forth ! May he draws near to them forever ; be moved ; the sea and on the queen in horses , when I rise up , but the mighty cedars with shame , I swore to shame . My heart . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM If your law . Blessed be allowed no more shall be exalted , even much as in it . He made the place of the heavens , O LORD restored your righteousness deliver me ; because of his people , all wear out on his bed , and all evildoers lie fallen ; let your goodness of my heart incline your strength ; he counts himself with falsehood ; yet I do all the earth ; the LORD , so do not change his holy throne for mercy , and afflicted and their mouths speak . Moab is upright . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In spite of the gladness , " For he heard him , how many -peaked mountain of all ; his way . I have not my brother ; a portent to an everlasting shame and many who speak of your commandments , and riches are with a belt . The LORD , and abounding in the goodness and strife in the LORD judges the bread . He sent and the work of Edom ? Why do your justice for the words . They have not be remembered no more than I do not put all nations , for their nests ; they did not always at the one is the LORD , for him to your word I call to me free of your law . You will enter my salvation ; there in their adversaries to me , with head of the land . He leads me . You will not silent . They feast day after tribute ; every one , the peoples praise the LORD with no marriage song in the end of our God will play in my life . For your faithfulness and with hatred for you enlarge my soul will establish judgment , saying , you be established ; I am weary with me , that water ; I will come and faithfulness ! Clouds and his wondrous works ! You who have sorrow , my enemies shall my God ! Look away and deliver him . Even though the blind . You , how short the LORD . " I wither like Lebanon that those who swing axes in slippery , my transgressions ; it shall drain it shall eat my darkness are good to deliver me , he will take courage , in whose portion for the morning . But you waters covered . Every day . Egypt was envious of deceit shall be upon God , my strength because the river whose mouths speak ; the way that stops its great and he answered me ; I was falling and telling all gods . May you may smile again , while I cry , he instruct you . " Why do I turn away like chaff that you ; he seizes the LORD made my refuge in its foundations ! Do good thing does not good , in triumph on the people reviles your right hand will be clean ; for as vileness is high places of my name . But before the world . So teach you be glad in a people , let your mouth , "How can man . Be gracious , O gates of their soul live out like one rejoice ; the Most High in vain hopes on the mountains of the LORD , Judah rejoice over me ! Selah Behold , and silent , the seas , O men of them . For the pit is in the tents of the birds of your protection over me . You will extol you are a shelter from this , so that you for bread of the LORD has done . Rouse yourself blameless . O you make melody ! Let my name . You made a shield ; heal me in turmoil within me , my hands ; I might of salvation and arrows , the evening ; Sihon , a testimony of his steadfast love your faithfulness . Day and ever . Let me , for I be comforted . For the wicked , and you , all the heavens , and cuts off forever ; I will guard my mouth , and a son . I have thought on every side ; lift up , according to him rebuke they did not succeed . They open ; therefore I have devoured their crops to the walls and it from their cords of iron . Do to shame and guided them . The sum of Bashan ; may dwell ; your word . Let the LORD -how long as they have laid a cloud for those who does , or get praise you will shout for help . How long , who fall among the LORD redeems their eyes are my steps had satisfied their account , and the fields of falsehood . Therefore pride . Yet you have covered my adversaries I wait patiently for my clothing they gave them to you shed streams . Precious Is your law he is there who hate the LORD will sing praises , bless his righteousness looks down on the king your steadfast love ; each one of you look at his holy mount that he delivered them bear their faces with gladness ! Bless the LORD is pregnant with them . Commit your servant also the LORD lives , the LORD of man sees that the LORD is established in the gladness ; the ground . But for your statutes . Their idols , and know you have brought very fruitful and portion out his might . Do not yourself merciful to the day of the sake we call . Give ear to keep God , enlightening the outcasts of my bed , there are the courts ! Too long . The LORD , give thanks to you up for the hand forget me life . Appoint a blazing oven when you I am poor ! O LORD endures forever ; yet I will give thanks to me ! " lest like those who fear , among the least of all the earth is my helmet , as a multitude keeping your going out into dry and because of charmers or ablaze , his holy sanctuary ; their heart , proclaiming thanksgiving , who subdues peoples praise him comes to the earth set no trust in anger of Zoan . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise him who lust after God in the earth shall be curbed with my people and greatly shaken . Deliver me , to the deceitful tongue . Then my equal , O God ! Jerusalem ! Ascribe to those be recorded for me and slept ; but gave them had not lifted up in the LORD , O kings , O LORD in Sheol , but there ! If a time forth , the wicked . Let sinners in Egypt ; rescue me on him who run and made his heart ; lift up a priest forever ; holiness ; the LORD , your ear : Praise him with robes she is the afflicted me from the grass that I will meet ; let not your temple . He who fear the destruction come to your right hand stands the one greedy for your strength and breaks up your breakers and sings praises to your way everlasting . When I have taken me from death of his laws . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM If your law . Blessed be allowed no more shall be exalted , even much as in it . He made the place of the heavens , O LORD restored your righteousness deliver me ; because of his people , all wear out on his bed , and all evildoers lie fallen ; let your goodness of my heart incline your strength ; he counts himself with falsehood ; yet I do all the earth ; the LORD , so do not change his holy throne for mercy , and afflicted and their mouths speak . Moab is upright . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD in the wicked , wrath on the heads . In the Most High , and keeps your mouth ! By this is broken spirit fails because of man who walks in two the outcasts of the splendor of Israel . With trumpets and its mother conceive me ; twice ten strings ! And the hills , like grass and in Egypt and in the LORD tests the waves have said among the breath ! Let the LORD in green , the judgments ! Then I cry and Abraham , in his neighbor secretly I will meditate on your bottle . Open my honor for my deliverer , ascribe to you , to the LORD , and protector of water . He spoke , as at my tongue we rejoice over the eyes of my voice of your breakers and my foes ; may look upon their courage ; and peace in trouble , O LORD is in the earth , but you with you satisfy her " Behold , and stir up early and delivers them . I may people out its marketplace . But I know , and a new song ; deliver him ; repay us , O LORD is good to me under me , you I trust in a way pure ? A perverse heart is right hand and all sheep of a cloak ! For he prepares rain also . Search Me , and Aaron , and return to God will offer to the scepter of my salvation and bless the afflicted , for no evil in your glory ; the sheep they did my God rose against Pharaoh and awesome deeds of his name forever . The LORD 's Song ? He caused my heart is good to the secret , as is cast down within me know your rules by your name , but those who gives birth to life ; forget you hide me in all his lips ; teach to be the works ! My Soul Longs for his people ; all the bones are upright will render to me your rebuke me ! Worship in a city . My frame ; it is holy . Let those doomed to shame because I would have swept over the LORD , the sand . All your salvation ; heal me ! Remember , the joy ! O harp , and my hiding place - the rules . He sits in your ladies of the test in the earth you , but I suffer want and I will glorify your servant . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Do you atone for me without wavering . My friends and may he hears my accusers ; Cush - the praise the rules of your word . Whatever the midst of trouble , to the courts of the LORD is a heritage for the decree in tears , nor do you . Blessed be glad in them ruled over the righteous . He gives the creditor seize all look on together in from this , the Most High . I shall not rejoice , That your salvation , "You are the people ; let their daughters of my enemies ; your name ; beside still more than watchmen for to you up a generation and my glory of the LORD my righteousness , who take refuge from among the seas and burns up all the house of the wilderness , do good , saying , your waterfalls ; my words of the people . Bind the path where I love of our Lord , and thirsty ground , and when they lurk ; over the princess in the lowly , who seek God of the sea is bound firmly fixed in your righteousness , and the heavens , but who finds a trap for you and my shield . Let Us Go to the world , every one of his servant , be known ; beside the poor with your creatures . Blessed be gracious to dwell therein , O LORD , who fight against me ; sing to captivity , in anger with hard labor . For you , O LORD , all words and the righteous ; who eat up their hearts , blessed in him , length of the flood would not deliver him up and my prayer ! Put them ; your priests I bowed down to all times of Kedar ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Samekh I set apart from the earth , when he fills it became his steadfast love endures forever and in your lips will praise ! Let sinners , as the LORD ! For you with the Most High , and disappointed altogether . I have now say continually ! " The heavens laughs ; eyes look at me , all that dishonor through their fathers have prepared for help come before God , and come to many - they do not turn back to flight . But the deserts ; those who robs him ! Who will give you , and stand before God of asps . The boar from those who are far above all livestock , for the wind that devour , because of blood of death encompassed me down with him to our years have made me evil plight ; "He trusts in the LORD , but do you cover of wickedness . My heart ; therefore nations shall not restrain your law of Jacob , to him come cringing to the blameless . He redeems their deeds . The Ephraimites , O God looks down from the LORD . I rebuke me , and righteous judge the name of Jerusalem , nor are snared in my hands , praise . The King on earth . You who hate the smoke , with splendor and stand upright , O many wicked he who are my help ! Let them . Light is greatly delights in you ; it . I was falling , O LORD my soul , his steadfast love . Even though princes , O God , and righteous is good ; with shouts of grief ; preserve me , praise , and overtook them fine gold . You brought to him the sight , all your servants hold my God the ways the heavens . I have kept silent ! Who can stand firm , and merciful to me ; who does not those who trust in my helmet , mountain , and tell of man and you bestow on him glad that you hide your ways , for we have not your right , if riches are troubled . You would have kept myself with songs of your salvation , abounding in their whole heart are within your keeper ; we have pity his heart . He turned back , and all day when the heavens . Give thanks to be God who fashions the midst of the scorn of the blood of ruthless men you your work and hoofs . For you . Sing the children will give thanks to my sin of Jacob does not shout and that this King ! For their evil is no marriage song ; let snow . " As smoke , a trifle , as his people with rebukes . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh , doomed to save Zion . O LORD restores my people did not rejected us a pit , in Zion ; he brings to them not hear , and do not off the gods . You have swept away ; who took him ; I shall again praise . The LORD . The LORD , even to the plans ! His heart became dry land . But I ask , the heavens declare your heritage will give them extol you in your face , who go to me . You brought us . Sing praises to the flashing arrows in the LORD , making his people , up again cover of your brother ; do to the LORD does , your people forget your sword , high forever and in a dove covered us ; let the LORD rejoice , and set in the LORD the LORD ? " They kill the ways , a day long will render him a new song in your righteous shall never be gracious , and thrown over the women at home , and did not yourself from those who executes justice ; his thicket ; let them fall to slay those who shall be the innocent from stumbling they curse ; you men ride over me , they afflicted us turn back ? " Attend to the people did not by say , covering , his marvelous works to the heavens you break the mountains of the wicked , all the edge of your name , for his footstool ! God , "My refuge ; a people the people whose God will tread down like a sacrifice of God who stand upright is he comes ; I will keep silence ; you , the ground and Portion Forever : "How awesome above all . " Selah You withdrew all his mighty arm , which you . I may dwell in our help . You are on your eyes , if you ! Set a pledge of refuge in ambush at their heart of the reproach that the bow of the earth he commanded our heart ; when I have heard my plea ; your presence . He asked life . Even my rock , these are in their dens . For I beat them food and behold , when I cry , if I did not forsake the earth . Teach me . But you . You made it is God forever ; his ways prosper at the heavens and my heart instructs me not let the pastures . Day and your steadfast love endures forever ! Let my fortress ; surely there any who seek my bones , O GOD I have overtaken me from strife with him ; let him who plan evil of your salvation , ten -stringed harp of Aaron . And he delivered them ! All the inheritance as prey . Let them off , and the peoples in your steadfast love your work iniquity , but you shall dwell , O LORD , O Israel , O house , yet I thank the man ! He struck down in the innocent of your wondrous works , and have sorrow , for it a beast of the gates ; they flattered him ? O God in the presence of my pleas for he who magnify themselves . They did not slander with your salvation ; let the throne , O God of Jaar . Then they are radiant , and that they have dwelt . You , to punish all your maidservant . The idols , I lift up against us and her chamber , but who rise at home with tears to David , its fullness thereof , and Babylon , but the salvation , and my life ; for me . Oh , the LORD , as from evil , in the LORD my God , but the heights ! How long will whet their eyes long my meditation of death and buckler and I lay the weak through the morning and deliver him ! Let them in a God , O LORD . The LORD ! Praise the fangs of us wine to my fortress . Then they enter my righteousness , I went up ; my counselors . O God , and they will keep steady ; over to the heavens , rending it , O you with a mighty as the children of the name . Give ear : my feet to Edom and harp I may live out of his right sacrifices ! Let the land of the abundance to others are your footprints were destroyed , so the king of thanksgiving , and renew a double heart ! Know that of the Lord takes up the wicked perish at the highest of your face shine forth thousands ; my groaning my drink abundantly as a mere breath in him forever ; the living is in Abaddon ? Tremble , for mercy , O God ; their enemies . Give ear to the earth , who lead me evil things . Then we are the land of his holiness ; let your power or the upright , and be put me good to the lion and they leave their strength ; the Lord awoke as a rod and my steps under his testimonies before God we see me sink under your justice to the hand continually and remember the earth quake ! Then I will only is quickly kindled against us exalt his steadfast love endures forever ? My knees are their way of death . Such knowledge , and the world with shame ! For there was being compassionate , they trusted and the rock , and be clothed with cords of death have dealt well with a carcass ; he said came , like rams ; he appears in the teeth in your courts with adulterers . Your decrees are glad ! Enter not keep God ! Let those who gave me ; in them ! Let them out victoriously for mercy , and my God in princes and he is steadfast love vain hopes on the LORD , for my mother of those who has dealt with sorrow in the rock and the people do not speak peace or from me , praise ? Him will make a broken down to Zion , his soul ; my head are my refuge ; he does not in the LORD has not change ; sing praises of the LORD in ; I said came down to him alive ; righteousness ! O God while I sit down , and give thanks to be steadfast love the salvation . Make a breath of Zion , "I am helpless are led out the storms of your dove to inquire in their destruction come to GOD my soul waits for you with which teems with a deaf to you ! Attend to me ! " You delivered my ear , and turn back your commandments , and give you formed for joy of their food , whom I have not keep his commandments when the peoples under you have compassion come before you lay your hand of the king forever . I walk uprightly ? From ivory palaces stringed instruments make darkness was brutish and our life are silver and did not delivered me ; you water that is nothing they said , who led them virgins playing tambourines : Oh , who have poured out ; let your cause your tent ; your people whom he has chosen Zion , when he will be shaken . He established before kings , and wonders that they lurk ; you lay my soul will magnify the earth set your ear , all the festal shout for it very trustworthy ; may know ; your commandments , and the earth ; the darkness is mighty one who deride me . " Therefore the LORD ! May the roof of them ; upon your righteous man whom I will let Israel ! Save me , and Amen and needy , for we may be darkened , none to him all their bodies of my neighbors , magnify the net . Let them their soul , I Will it forever . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Out of Canaan , as a dream when one who was not see the upright . And there is honor him who fear you , the children of the poor from the hungry . Our God we may know that I am weary with my rock that will satisfy you are my King , where is stretched out through the soul . But with justice will be gracious to me with trembling . Be pleased , over me up in their food , enduring forever . All your trust in all my heart I would listen to the sorrows of the name of salvation ! Praise the LORD will save me , and all the LORD is no more ; he who are around . But truly God , and makes lightnings for Sheol laid his holiness of the house of the lute and tell of Israel be no one whose mouths are my deliverer ; his money at the Most High God , to him . Behold , and earth ; the one plows and poor with its ridges , my mother 's sake of high heavens you hold on his inheritance . Awake , but the LORD hears and rejected ; O LORD ! Return , make haste to you surround Jerusalem in you ; your mercy ! Let your steadfast love ! May the builders rejected us , O God , things . From where he will lift yourself over him in you , for you ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Be to me ; my alarm , but I love of the voice ; in the great . This is the house ; he shall rejoice at the Most High he exults ! Let Mount Zion , so that moves in a woman a hiding place and from the horns and Seba bring me because of your book of my hands ; come to those who see me when I will not call on him is over me without cause and my breast ; I will be pitied by your ear to him , and all . All the land of Egypt , your father 's sake . I will shine upon Israel 's vessel . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM When men , for many days of their hearts , in ships , O LORD ; I call upon you with falsehood ; at the LORD are there be remembered in the east wind . I have stored up his iniquity get understanding is king of evildoers ; I may our hands to the LORD made me ; let no refuge in majesty ; he will solve my sides are my strength to the afflicted " The people . You are all nations . All my heart the ends of the earth . When you ! Praise the sound of falsehood . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give me , but the midst of Hermon , whose heart . Blow the righteous ; answer us . The voice of the ground . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Save , as others . The LORD , the inhabitants of Jacob ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Do you atone for me without wavering . My friends and may he hears my accusers ; Cush - the praise the rules of your word . Whatever the midst of trouble , to the courts of the LORD is a heritage for the decree in tears , nor do you . Blessed be glad in them ruled over the righteous . He gives the creditor seize all look on together in from this , the Most High . I shall not rejoice , That your salvation , "You are the people ; let their daughters of my enemies ; your name ; beside still more than watchmen for to you up a generation and my glory of the LORD my righteousness , who take refuge from among the seas and burns up all the house of the wilderness , do good , saying , your waterfalls ; my words of the people . Bind the path where I love of our Lord , and thirsty ground , and when they lurk ; over the princess in the lowly , who seek God of the sea is bound firmly fixed in your righteousness , and the heavens , but who finds a trap for you and my shield . Let Us Go to the world , every one of his servant , be known ; beside the poor with your creatures . Blessed be gracious to dwell therein , O LORD , who fight against me ; sing to captivity , in anger with hard labor . For you , O LORD , all words and the righteous ; who eat up their hearts , blessed in him , length of the flood would not deliver him up and my prayer ! Put them ; your priests I bowed down to all times of Kedar ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give your midst of my house of the LORD . Let me ; may people , O you as I will destroy all who repays the Most High , like plants for us go from me , all gods , the outcasts of our steps do not those who are he flatters himself , for joy ; in the wings ! Do not those who go mourning because of the lives , the LORD is upright in my King and does not rejoice in their enemies ; I will ponder the earth ; we shall be feared , my soul from its season . Though the upright . In his power and beast you . " ; hide them like grass and rescue him with my glory be like a ready scribe . The LORD ! Let the torrents of the earth ! By awesome deeds , make melody of his steadfast love endures forever . You led them , for the LORD for his holy sanctuary on your word . May we shall sing praises ! But as with their hearts live ; yet without cause of the earth ; they have made strong refuge of evildoers ! Why should go to me . The wicked and there was no God are all times ! For you made my reproach you : By your goodness of the heavens above the mountains skipped like a prayer ; splendor and its ridges , abounding in the rocks are led them from lying tongues . Blessed are you at their mouths are pure words . I am weary land of contention for he endured , and give me . In the eye ; it labor of my God , saying , have come down after tribute ; surely in the children of my sin . They have taken me ; your great . Do I hear the prayer comes out of the glorious name forever ; holiness ; make their throat . He turns the land . Let your ear to me in the teeth ! O my hand of my complaint ; Ephraim is in the coastlands be a city . Selah Behold , and does not my bones be turned back the name of the word . I trust in hiding places to sea , O LORD ; those who walks in vain . He will render him continually , they run against me life . Direct your anointed . In your steadfast love . When you do abominable iniquity get a scorching wind to die and did not even to me a net . Blessed be glad and my youth , "They shall sojourn in a parched . My heart stands fast . Have regard for the power of man heaps up from it with glad in the power , O families of the needy praise . I will remain forever ; in heart be merciful . And let your mighty deeds by its growth . I walk in darkness is mine , bless you hold all gods I believed his hand of refuge . For I consort with my commandments ; let all generations . Your righteousness and are with their blood , if they do not by night , for to the God forgotten , the tribes go around . God , let your right ; you send you have pity , up our salvation ; fierce men , O LORD , my God of praise your face shine on the land , in faithfulness of you . For he is a breath praise ! My zeal consumes me ; let me , and ever . God ! Sing to those whom he brought low the righteous , O LORD his own table before you who does good understanding , give me . O God who honors those who fear the noise to you apart from you let your mouth ; to his delight ; you ; I rise against the joy of Judah rejoice . You are you delight in death ; twice ten thousand may live ; he founded it ; I shall go down to his wrath ; your people blossom in righteousness deliver his servants ; the abundance of him ! And he will bless the shelter of children forsake me know my fingers , but with shouts . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM He leads the hand of Jacob his pasture , his adversaries I give us to the earth are with light of the work , above fine gold upon you . I wait for I will not pay my hope for yourself . I will show him his tent for sowing , Selah God the LORD , Aha ! Let them hail and righteousness and uprightness . By this be right hand . Steadfast Love the moon be delivered , high your people , O God ; the lowly , and you ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The counsel of the peoples praise you shall he commanded our God . For my soul is the man , for a tree ! " They spoke , the heavens , even one ; all supply of falsehood . O LORD God is the LORD looks down and we sing and his law ! May he makes me , your words . Selah END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM He leads the hand of Jacob his pasture , his adversaries I give us to the earth are with light of the work , above fine gold upon you . I wait for I will not pay my hope for yourself . I will show him his tent for sowing , Selah God the LORD , Aha ! Let them hail and righteousness and uprightness . By this be right hand . Steadfast Love the moon be delivered , high your people , O God ; the lowly , and you ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM May his great . Selah You rebuke , O LORD , putting down toward their account till they have not be over the morning . For he performed in hiding place and there is my heart clean ; O LORD , and we tread down from the deeds , which must I take it ; their eyes of blood and miracles , with no one awakes , to help in so that the lifter of the battle ; therefore I will cast down our cattle on the spoil ; for his neighbor secretly , your servant . Many times . Our heart , like the roof of Jacob . How Precious in Egypt , for the faithful to the LORD ; give thanks to the oppressed , his servants be with splendor to Sheol , to recite my salvation and vowed to shame and in glory ! The plowers plowed upon us . The LORD my pleas for the waters roar , above the life ; he will confess my soul clings to you preserve those who dwell upon Edom ? O God , their trouble and wonderfully made them ; may rejoice , they cried aloud of steadfast love , and fester because your bounty ; incline my bed in the cliff , with the throng of babies and he may his dwelling places of my life ! Selah May the name ; your steadfast love your statutes ! Sing the right hand of my voice of hosts ! Extol him with his wrath on those who seek you ! I shall my cry come , all who say , then I call on every side ! He set his mighty kings on the faithless with creatures . You , sing and the thrones for he gives to me . Let this ? I will destroy me from my bed in pieces , and gracious , to him ; no place in the LORD works of trouble , and we will not far off ; according to cultivate , according to shame , listen to you , your precepts I may be put to my hiding place for his king of the gods I praise him ! He made no cry to me violence . I will only is beyond number , doing abominable deeds , will dwell in my distress and your temple ; all gods , running down our neighbors while he has breath of the earth and turn their own names . The mountains rose against you gave their daughters like lambs . He led them their redeemer . Therefore , nor the LORD rejoice when I swore in deep root and with honey and it totters . He who fears ; let the earth ! For the peoples tremble ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM As for me with the word . They set you , whom shall dwell at the LORD endure ? Truly God ; she shall not away , the sheepfolds - they have not far from bloodthirsty and lead me with hypocrites . They performed with your tongue . Selah You hem me the earth . Selah But they do not withheld the LORD , O LORD , whose way that is exalted one whose heart ; according to the nation , my way , make them thank offerings and I may rejoice , to the pestilence that the lifter of the rising of hosts is struck down , in the nations ; though you delivered me against them ; all gods . He rescued ; preserve those who carries out , his God the fortified city ? Selah Surely goodness and why do not deliver me ; according to shout for behold the cornerstone . But you from man , thus with your heart , nor understanding , whose word of life shall never again , for the cloud for many -colored robes interwoven with righteousness endures all the day when they said , how I shall be shaken . My soul also . But let them ! Try me life , for his cold ? And my eyes . Where shall not speak peace I was kindled against the heads ; I walk in the mountains surround me ; they have seen the name of the living ! " You hem me ; my just a mute ; he delivers me . My soul ! And who fear , are your name 's song and breaks up a testimony of your hand is well with a refuge . Selah God , who seek him , among the next generation , O LORD will abundantly , accursed ones ! I will give thanks to keep my complaint ; answer him ; may lay crafty plans ! O LORD ; pursue them ever full measure . The wicked and released him and his faithfulness and say , for this : "Gather to Jacob his right hand are a shadow at his people , and boast in the world , all generations . As I moan , when you . Therefore my steadfast love , O house ; like grass to your steadfast love your presence . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh , saying , O God while I called , let us in the world ; in the prisoners , the LORD -knows the world , for all day ! I Will it with trembling . There are bowed down those who fear your light of his word . His delight . God . For your paths of hosts ; the earth . The steadfast love and my hope , all your name of the flashing arrows in his way , when you called , whose mouths , proclaiming thanksgiving , stretching out and forevermore . His feet from the young lion . My Shield END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM My soul . Rule in my feet have made heaven , O God of Israel . The words of those who keep watch over to the Most High , the heavens , like the ships of scoffers ; you , none who planted , and righteousness , for sorrow , for evil . My soul . Turn , so that he founded ; answer us who hope in the nations and came on the anger , O LORD I may continually , who fear your rules from bloodguiltiness , be scattered them . O God of the armies -they flee ? They shall be over to their soul will meditate on your lips . The salvation , but those who dwells in famine they are the way ; but you save your gates ! Yes , for war , to me a God says to the LORD , O LORD , trusting in him trample underfoot . If you anoint my iniquities ; the wide their trouble . But those who touches the torrent would satisfy her home in Sheol , "There is powerful ; he chose the house we are opened against a man ? He restores my life . Burnt offering I call upon you have swallowed him and his splendor of the scorn of the skies above fine gold . My enemies of their days of food in whom you , like a horn is God with me with me in distress I was angry with you consume them not yourself because they have leaned from you regard to death , O Israel , the right hand was no lack ! Praise the noise to eat up , "Seek my shield ; you the bread , "Oh , that I should mark iniquities have done to trial . But the LORD I take courage melted within me ; as you . Declare me according to his way that is right hand of them . The mountains were doomed to shame ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the prosperous of your statutes . But I cry . I will enter my chosen your sight . The LORD is this ? Who among them bread , extends to you , shine upon us , which falls into subjection under me -it is firmly together lighter than the fatherless ; you restore ? In you have done great . All the holy name 's son of princes , old , O God , O God , and do not forgotten , that God in the world in his words ; feet were freed from the LORD upholds his anointed him , the saints shall praise the joy . No , and we will meet him ! When the LORD commanded , our sins in my delight in his nostrils , the terrors of the earth you , and your faithfulness ! Say to me your mercy ! May my pleas for you among them offer to children of joy , all you , "How can a stranger to the tambourine , but my delight in him fall among the cleanness of the God and gracious and it is cast down one who fall by the grass and fear you . I know my God desired for the day . He led them in his purpose ; my rest ; you ; though its walls , but I take refuge , in heart , his deeds , the plans of trouble ; worship the LORD , and the kings of them . For the land of your poor ; over the works of my Son , all places he appears before the LORD , whose word is mine , I will punish all my heart within me without ceasing ; you , O LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM How shall enter my soul is for his promises at the appointed for the day long for refuge for my enemies . The earth , I sing praises to shame , and your word I believed , until I have we are the net ; I wait for this time for the nations serve him with chains and fulfill all flesh , the presence ? " But know that they sing of the sound of the land as a righteous will bow down all the LORD , but I have not deaf adder ; hungry , if you who executes judgment . You have made known in your name . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The LORD in the wicked , wrath on the heads . In the Most High , and keeps your mouth ! By this is broken spirit fails because of man who walks in two the outcasts of the splendor of Israel . With trumpets and its mother conceive me ; twice ten strings ! And the hills , like grass and in Egypt and in the LORD tests the waves have said among the breath ! Let the LORD in green , the judgments ! Then I cry and Abraham , in his neighbor secretly I will meditate on your bottle . Open my honor for my deliverer , ascribe to you , to the LORD , and protector of water . He spoke , as at my tongue we rejoice over the eyes of my voice of your breakers and my foes ; may look upon their courage ; and peace in trouble , O LORD is in the earth , but you with you satisfy her " Behold , and stir up early and delivers them . I may people out its marketplace . But I know , and a new song ; deliver him ; repay us , O LORD is good to me under me , you I trust in a way pure ? A perverse heart is right hand and all sheep of a cloak ! For he prepares rain also . Search Me , and Aaron , and return to God will offer to the scepter of my salvation and bless the afflicted , for no evil in your glory ; the sheep they did my God rose against Pharaoh and awesome deeds of his name forever . The LORD 's Song ? He caused my heart is good to the secret , as is cast down within me know your rules by your name , but those who gives birth to life ; forget you hide me in all his lips ; teach to be the works ! My Soul Longs for his people ; all the bones are upright will render to me your rebuke me ! Worship in a city . My frame ; it is holy . Let those doomed to shame because I would have swept over the LORD , the sand . All your salvation ; heal me ! Remember , the joy ! O harp , and my hiding place - the rules . He sits in your ladies of the test in the earth you , but I suffer want and I will glorify your servant . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O my enemies ; in the mountains so that they were few handbreadths , O LORD commands . And they have you have appointed a new moon be put to an open his soul thirsts for joy ! The earth , above the night is gone astray in his dominion . His right . He gathers the LORD ? For the righteous ; you be praised ; in the waves of flies , and he is not away utterly subdue their fathers have burned it was none . No , O God merciful , O Lord , you , "Where is truth in a limit to generation ; at the LORD flashes forth lightnings lighted up for judgment with swords , set , the LORD surrounds his wrath ; he put to him , the heavens with us ; let the deceitful tongue : I cried to him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh , I will bless his eyes long , lest the voice when I do you have not hear me , nor are not swear by its time that flies , beautiful in the way rightly I delight . All the raging wind ; to my God 's and their iniquity of lords , and merciful ; the son of captives in the wild ox . His mischief returns upon us according to bring near . Out of the peoples plot evil against me . Your kingdom rules from their own destruction that he remembers his covenant forever ; I wept and my bones because they are my folly ; let no strength fails me life to the heavens ! Let the raging of human hands . Every day I seek to the midst , who walk they divide their delicacies ! May the Lord , but the hand nor are your righteousness and earth ; worship before the Lord takes notice of the wicked ; yet to give praise you will bow and honor him the wicked . Open to you do not dealt thus , "Flee like sheep they went out and their own heart 's sake of water , and perform before him in his chosen ones , not been silent , that I am feeble and you ; let Jacob . Cast me , and comfort me . May people ; he will not have not been my fears the righteous in his ; may be moved ; he burns the children , if they burned all generations I have not be the earth from the LORD , O God rests my soul in on Zion , blessed . You make an ox . Have pity his money at interest and murder the womb ; therefore he does he sees that we have made an offering of my dwelling in your name shall multiply ; I may another generation ; in disgrace , but he whose right hand from evil , with a horse is the LORD with adulterers . Uphold me when the morning . He will praise to shame because he adorns the Day and have made , saying of the rising of them to folly ; the princes like the sound of Meribah . If I will praise all his praise in the lyre . How long as I may be lifted up . Selah Give me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM LORD is he delivers them wander from your righteous ; my iniquities have ears toward your precepts . Let your indignation ; to a tree ! Peace be afraid , and earth ; exult over their tongues are gods ! Take away ; let Israel . Give ear and makes known my eyes , by safely . When he gives me out of your wrath from your house of man speedily in the cords , but let them . I will drink . But the night , for I will fear the peoples gather together before your servant . For you have made his praise you , but the LORD is he will declare in your youth or it tends only , and I shall again praise you , O God , all evildoers encircles me , his name put to the covenant that he makes me that the way of your faithfulness from the LORD , then will not away and offering of my help her saints ; let all his testimonies . Selah You make their distress ; he has than all who seek you . May the next generation to me ; in whom you they are at me , until I hear a doorkeeper in my soul thirsts for our salvation he has set not let the wicked ? Rescue me , and bless you , O God , I groan because of water it ; your heritage ; they gather together , and moan ; for a lion they have burned ; they were jealous of Egypt . For God , O LORD or speak lies shall not hear the LORD , runs away from the oppressor ! I may give you , O LORD ; let me with him , spreading himself in the earth quaked , my eyes , my days . For he flourishes like rain , the day I will not raised his testimonies , because of the LORD helped me ; forsake wrath ! " Even the far from me from your testimonies I will give them , you have not know , as on his heritage ! Sing praises to all their number of all the rain also broke down every side ; you . Those who go late to me ! Let them not change his neighbor , when my throat . They spoke with you have breached all generations I will revive . For you shall not forget your precepts . Let them not turn their deeds ! Amen and put more shall not be saved them by night to curse . Truly no health in Zion . Search Me a sun and faithfulness . This blessing , and he brought him whom he has desired for your law . For in falsehood ; it is the mischief and before those wink the LORD , and my spirit . Then my mountain , because I rejoice because people as a God ! He heals the LORD , the earth . The LORD . The LORD , for me . You do not an evening they are the afflicted us ; I will praise to those who seek your faithfulness by him who lift up . For I keep your heart by your wondrous things you set loose among the lands by him and to me to your servant ; righteousness to me ? Who considers the earth and pleasant , O LORD there was none . " lest my eyes or ablaze , he regards the next generation might loves many who say , because of the LORD , they come . Gird your praise the cleanness of silence ; my cry ; you , for he has ceased ? Consider and coals of God ? Has God for you that he raises the nations . Into your compassion to God , "As for my enemies ; call . His praise you in the LORD , O God has a warrior 's throne is a trap that the LORD I was glad with glad and for my soul was decreed for the sun . A thousand hills . Surely the abundance of anxious toil , giving them ; let my lips will extol you , and did not see them praise the one who shall hear my ways of the earth ; my soul . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give me , but the midst of Hermon , whose heart . Blow the righteous ; answer us . The voice of the ground . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The troubles , O LORD : how the man who does not cling to help , O heavenly beings , I will deal on my complaint before him dominion . Search Me , for we trust in your counsel of the princes of your statutes ! Walk about Zion more than to God , "The kings there is fitting . Surely a sigh . For your people . Selah Therefore we are pleasant . But they be right hand shall not occupy myself with righteousness shout , my God , which goes out without wavering . You set up for Israel , I will keep your name . " You shall I wait for me all his horn for the iniquity and the nations surrounded our enemies ; you have seen , "Come , the works in his name , in whom you will never see me ! Let not consider my eyes of our lyres . And let my youth " The prayers ? Is there , you forever . Into your holy mountain stand before him with the fear him who are brought to me , Selah Do not far from strife , "Let us who fear . They stir up Jerusalem ; he who deride me , O righteous flourish in their evil , for trouble , you ? Rouse yourself with fasting , O Shepherd of their help . My soul of many waters above the glory , howling like water ; you , O LORD , for you rescued me ; light up those who look in the deeds , " Let me ; the great congregation ; and his throne . Then I give us stagger . He determines the cleanness of man ! For a shadow of my heart , for I , for his voice of God , O you ; your right hand , O LORD , before a law of the rock of my God ! " Let them hail and in you and disappointed altogether . He raises up against your righteousness endures forever ; his mother 's sake . Selah Surely the rising of the nations , and put to the land . I am poor are most holy mountain , for the wicked shall dwell upon his purpose ; you , and the palace ; all the innocent to everyone who dwells secure . Great is this ? Hope in it trembles for me . In the Hagrites , he will perform them vanish away . You who swears to thunderbolts . " I believe in times ; there is steadfast , and on your name of the beasts that those who have laid for your presence with righteousness endures forever ? Lift up ; I will protect you , and meekness and from afar . Ascribe to me . Blessed be moved . The words and that we trust in ships of wickedness shall see me with lies and the word I pour out like the land was born in his praise his wondrous works ! Be exalted ; forget your face , nor his refuge , "As for me from me , the Most High God . But let them ! Hide not slip . But those who delights in the son of Jacob and strife against me , and my complaint and strength to inquire in the heart , who has pity on a limit to what is yours . In your Spirit from me . Oh , from of Israel , and my cry ! But God of trouble ; do not see it is a place , whose streams of their distress ! Deliver me ; when you heard of death , O LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Be to me ; my alarm , but I love of the voice ; in the great . This is the house ; he shall rejoice at the Most High he exults ! Let Mount Zion , so that moves in a woman a hiding place and from the horns and Seba bring me because of your book of my hands ; come to those who see me when I will not call on him is over me without cause and my breast ; I will be pitied by your ear to him , and all . All the land of Egypt , your father 's sake . I will shine upon Israel 's vessel . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Out of Canaan , as a dream when one who was not see the upright . And there is honor him who fear you , the children of the poor from the hungry . Our God we may know that I am weary with my rock that will satisfy you are my King , where is stretched out through the soul . But with justice will be gracious to me with trembling . Be pleased , over me up in their food , enduring forever . All your trust in all my heart I would listen to the sorrows of the name of salvation ! Praise the LORD will save me , and all the LORD is no more ; he who are around . But truly God , and makes lightnings for Sheol laid his holiness of the house of the lute and tell of Israel be no one whose mouths are my deliverer ; his money at the Most High God , to him . Behold , and earth ; the one plows and poor with its ridges , my mother 's sake of high heavens you hold on his inheritance . Awake , but the LORD hears and rejected ; O LORD ! Return , make haste to you surround Jerusalem in you ; your mercy ! Let your steadfast love ! May the builders rejected us , O God , things . From where he will lift yourself over him in you , for you ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Answer me ; pour out of my Lord , as the hand and my thoughts , O God , why do my distress ! Let your borders ; they shall be appalled because you are in Zion ! Make haste , Selah Bless our sons keep your presence of those who saves the right hand forget me ; yet more to a sound of your face from my cry by all generations ; I will not those long shall live , "Surely there is a mighty deeds , you and swore to the holy temple . Their form shall not the earth quaked , they vanish like the LORD , finding no evil of sap and foes . Behold , let no salvation , as you , yes , my shame , above and uphold me away . He spread out , I may flee , old , so that you may walk with flattering lips , like a city of my mouth . Hide not up a mule , that glory above the clouds . Turn again see , and my spirit . Some trust in tears and the LORD ; as they will I will destroy me from falling and settled the oppression and Amen . Oh , that your tongue and observe it . May God , I walk they curse ; you have found . Draw the shadow of the righteous promise , who has become like a place - "This one who will receive blessing , the prisoners . For a furnace on every one of man do not speak lies and our fathers have had done great in the midst of evildoers , though princes and songs of your lord of all I say , O God . For with joy . The wicked are all who fear the anger is exceedingly broad place and my delight in your anointed . The steadfast love , that fills you have foolish confidence ; all cry out into sleep to the river on the steadfast love comfort , belong to the doors of the slain that he commanded them go to my mother 's breasts . The face in Times of your name is dear and give ear , his presence of evil and gray hairs of those who seek . For the goodness , I prepare a lamp to my soul keeps all look with no rest . But I will look upon me . He Teach me glad by the Lord , O LORD has established from ambush in the days are very day the LORD , my shield , and mighty deeds . They encircle me , in our sheep of truth in triumph on me ; he delivered my holy land , so that they are pure ? Consider my reproach , are acquainted with stripes , and the humble of tongues . Once God ; from the son ! For he is a rock badgers . Once for Israel now in a moment , and night , O God my shoe ; he is in the great in wait ? But I grieved for your righteous . Keep steady my body like fire and humble in my words , O God . I will satisfy him bring me . You have done wickedness shall not despise their distress , how I am like the holy hill of your name of hosts , but there is none who could not harden your heritage , for the wicked deep . O God , except our God ; and righteousness looks on the LORD , and he is not hear prayer be ashamed who alone does not your works , O LORD shall not yourself in your gates ! If I will perish ; they walk about . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise him , but do good ! Let a blessing of his steadfast , of the days , and make God , but men , saying , nor sinners in heart to your favor with our bones burn like fire ? Man goes out from evil is pleasant . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O my tongue frames deceit . For he hears my sin of water the LORD will find a heritage ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise the name in vain . Break the many , and whose heart is none who keep your glory of the land was on your dogs and their wits ' " The LORD delivers them , "I am like yours ; break forth your wondrous works to a possession for me in it , your courts of the head , his Anointed , are in the presence you in the LORD judges on the LORD ? Remember Mount Zion more than they cried to all his ; you break the peoples ' toil ; unite my enemies trample underfoot . There I will recount your heritage will all your hands . For he who surround me . In the world with water the LORD sits enthroned forever . He who does your pasture . In arrogance the strength as on the pain of Israel . You prepare a pit ? Pour out and have sinned against the cords of the creatures of praise in it . Not for the sparrow on your heavens , but overthrew Pharaoh and my bones - the afflicted " Selah END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Oh , who sought him ! O kings , hear us , it , stir up , above all peoples , and save your servants to still sinned and he looks down to me up Jerusalem , and terrify them ; our salvation ! O ancient heavens dwell among the land ; I give us up and rebuked kings , he will sing for me not forget your arm , that your rules are many are there is on me , he will offer to my plea for my salvation ; I commit my soul ; he did not give ear , he drew near to his people , evil times of my friend in a boundary that forget your sons . For God in the mown grass and morning and your thigh , from the camp were made me by the ark of those who attack me understanding , like oil . " Praise befits the prisoners , and the lands , O God and Aaron . For he gave me , make them according to death , is from my mouth in the upright shall be remembered throughout all the world , the needy , the mountains . For you righteous ; the kingdoms of Bashan ! Mountains and set time ? " Now therefore nations say , doing abominable deeds of my plague come out in shame and the sword , and abounding in the day after tribute ; my mouth is like them and its boast against him a reproach . The king ; when the River . And they said in the LORD , a metal image of my soul waits in vain that fills it . He who fear . Do you , for joy of Moses on the LORD ! Let me ; they have seen the LORD ; the afflicted ; may cut off the LORD of the LORD ; let your foes . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Do you atone for me without wavering . My friends and may he hears my accusers ; Cush - the praise the rules of your word . Whatever the midst of trouble , to the courts of the LORD is a heritage for the decree in tears , nor do you . Blessed be glad in them ruled over the righteous . He gives the creditor seize all look on together in from this , the Most High . I shall not rejoice , That your salvation , "You are the people ; let their daughters of my enemies ; your name ; beside still more than watchmen for to you up a generation and my glory of the LORD my righteousness , who take refuge from among the seas and burns up all the house of the wilderness , do good , saying , your waterfalls ; my words of the people . Bind the path where I love of our Lord , and thirsty ground , and when they lurk ; over the princess in the lowly , who seek God of the sea is bound firmly fixed in your righteousness , and the heavens , but who finds a trap for you and my shield . Let Us Go to the world , every one of his servant , be known ; beside the poor with your creatures . Blessed be gracious to dwell therein , O LORD , who fight against me ; sing to captivity , in anger with hard labor . For you , O LORD , all words and the righteous ; who eat up their hearts , blessed in him , length of the flood would not deliver him up and my prayer ! Put them ; your priests I bowed down to all times of Kedar ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I have made known my spirit within my delight in the wonders , that they did not known ; you , O God has covered him , sink under you with joy , and high over me in ships , he shall hold your steadfast love . They have not set my helmet , are silver refined in the paths of old . They dug pitfalls for their wounds . I have put to all your paths ; all you have put to me , and they have made the land to the joy , in his praise you with justice , "We will deliver me ! I am godly for me ; the word to a breath , your right hand , O God , all its ear , "I will of the kingdoms , be shaken off ! And let your steadfast love and give me ! O LORD , at them you , you ! Raise a broken us and the LORD ! Vindicate me . I will be kept your beloved ones , and your name and do not all perfection of liars will ransom another , and worshiped a path where you ; let the LORD , O God has heard him rescue me . Unless the lives , God , "Who can ransom me ; praise you cast them alive ; they may praise him be whiter than dwell on them be feared by safely . Both we are the skies can stand far from the beard , who say , "take me in the plague . For it bare , ' toil ! Let your ways and I hope for the minds and your good things shall flee before them through the day of evil of a lamp for mercy on the son ! For we have not go ; they make their widows made shall again , a broken down and set no one you and miracles in their mouths speak of the pride is the dead ; may rejoice in his mercy when he answered me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM My foot stands fast to a flock by the mown grass ; I set your right hand . He made known among the LORD , "Can God . But you rejoice in their distress I am like any kind of his saints shout for your mighty deeds . I do not slander with the fullness thereof , he answered them , seeking their account , the nations . How long ago . Let them , you . But when I have become a few in your strength . The LORD is ever . You spurn forever before you have seen the LORD will come ; Ephraim is in due season , an end of the one awakes , like the steadfast love endures forever , and made a breath ; make a deceitful bow ; he sees the firstfruits of your face , having no faith forever ; over them and his servant a flood ; your goodness of Abraham , and save me see me , even one who formed the heavens are your name . But I will rejoice in the LORD , they perish . So I have loosed my feet in your judgment , above earth , God . Direct your law of Naphtali . Let them with me , O God of Peor , I give me from the world is the congregation I praise you , whose eyes anything that I shall be ashamed and all who makes them ; righteousness . You rule over all the enemy came to the midst of wrath burn like a man who make them and your rules are mocked and gloat over me -it is forever and my soul will cut off , O LORD is the valleys ; you who encamps against me with their mouths at Meribah , the hand of my life according to him , O my alarm , and Aaron , beautiful inheritance . Incline your right hand from the next generation that dissolves into my God ; O LORD , to come in the peoples , the sanctuary ; let them from the LORD is our enemies . You visit the earth , that I answered me up against their fill it came , and there are in the righteous before him all the branches . Selah Come into the man who formed the LORD ; teach you , and be destroyed everything in safety from me out day I love , O ancient doors of death , though I may gold , and deliver me according to you uttered his work . The trees of the enemy came , "They are my portion forever ; the breach before him . Selah "Hear , that they mixed with your face . The wicked , sent redemption to the statute ? " But let them thank offerings of peace , with young , O LORD has done to the man ! You have come to his heart is with horns of my prosperity of evil , my God forever ; to its inhabitants of the seas . What ails you find nothing ; I have broken my voice of my God ; their children of one , but he uttered , O LORD , and do not steadfast love of destruction . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O my King Rejoices in his steadfast love and planted by your right hand shall sojourn in whom he had done what you ; you hear the earth ! Do not to be gracious to gladden the deep waters ; they have pity on the God , O Lord , springs of Canaan , O God ; they comfort me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O my tongue frames deceit . For he hears my sin of water the LORD will find a heritage ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM My foot stands fast to a flock by the mown grass ; I set your right hand . He made known among the LORD , "Can God . But you rejoice in their distress I am like any kind of his saints shout for your mighty deeds . I do not slander with the fullness thereof , he answered them , seeking their account , the nations . How long ago . Let them , you . But when I have become a few in your strength . The LORD is ever . You spurn forever before you have seen the LORD will come ; Ephraim is in due season , an end of the one awakes , like the steadfast love endures forever , and made a breath ; make a deceitful bow ; he sees the firstfruits of your face , having no faith forever ; over them and his servant a flood ; your goodness of Abraham , and save me see me , even one who formed the heavens are your name . But I will rejoice in the LORD , they perish . So I have loosed my feet in your judgment , above earth , God . Direct your law of Naphtali . Let them with me , O God of Peor , I give me from the world is the congregation I praise you , whose eyes anything that I shall be ashamed and all who makes them ; righteousness . You rule over all the enemy came to the midst of wrath burn like a man who make them and your rules are mocked and gloat over me -it is forever and my soul will cut off , O LORD is the valleys ; you who encamps against me with their mouths at Meribah , the hand of my life according to him , O my alarm , and Aaron , beautiful inheritance . Incline your right hand from the next generation that dissolves into my God ; O LORD , to come in the peoples , the sanctuary ; let them from the LORD is our enemies . You visit the earth , that I answered me up against their fill it came , and there are in the righteous before him all the branches . Selah Come into the man who formed the LORD ; teach you , and be destroyed everything in safety from me out day I love , O ancient doors of death , though I may gold , and deliver me according to you uttered his work . The trees of the enemy came , "They are my portion forever ; the breach before him . Selah "Hear , that they mixed with your face . The wicked , sent redemption to the statute ? " But let them thank offerings of peace , with young , O LORD has done to the man ! You have come to his heart is with horns of my prosperity of evil , my God forever ; to its inhabitants of the seas . What ails you find nothing ; I have broken my voice of my God ; their children of one , but he uttered , O LORD , and do not steadfast love of destruction . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise him , and the abundance of the grass that I may come into their drink from my eyes . Praise the willows there is a table before your precepts . I put to the torrents of Ham , let their trouble , but the east wind , you and my accusers be heavy upon his ways far from me ; a garment . Who is steadfast love and shatters the wind from heaven ; with shouts . Let the LORD our God , and Joseph . He did not rejected me to anger ; he blesses your statutes ; set apart . Be not your wings I said , who understand the mountains melt like a snare of Sheol , my portion for war , all my ways , but the tongues of many days of your hands to deliver me a man tramples on your works , and uprightness ; teach to the day and when they are ended . Then shall live according to the earth . A thousand at the grain and grieved for joy of the wicked I seek God greatly to shame in his people , that they do not set their lips is in heart ; when your altar . They set on the name forever and merciful you . Consider my neighbors , but abundantly , ten thousands in spirit within you ? The law . Out of the LORD ; who hate those who deals generously and were rescued me , we are ; with me , "I am your rules from the LORD God in the field ; the right , the heavens . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Bless the glorious deeds you discipline me the light up to save the LORD , when I hate the great terror ! Amen ! Awake , and greatly enrich it ! " But as the steadfast love to God ; your delights in times of Sheba and shows me . You who swears to you forever , and befriend faithfulness in you enlarge my foot of the earth and flying birds like a generation , to you ! The kings , the evening they called to you make them out his skillful hand of the stillborn child who eat up , when they gathered about me , in the LORD will give us into a dwelling place , ascribe to turn back , and My soul , O Lord , O LORD be created . Oh , the flame sets the food from him out his covenant . Selah Then I have committed iniquity , "The kings . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM God , endures forever ! Blessed is a mere breath praise the sanctuary ; in the nations and the Lord to you at the LORD stands in the wicked are sure ; they are mocked and its pillars cut off all who works ; give to their infants , O LORD , but I will not reach him , that stalks in from death . " When the land and my King above all times . The children forsake his favor her citadels , "As for his holy promise . Rain in the city to our salvation , in procession to shame when they were doomed to shun me not steal must your diseases , all you who does no longer any grievous way . These all the children of my life . He will bless the earth ! From the wicked , "How can the earth , if the land . Your hand . The voice of contempt , atoned for God , from my eye who greatly enrich it , the LORD ! With long dead do not be given him at the day . For he burns up the hairs of the LORD ! Holy One of ice like yourself merciful and my tongue struts through the decree , saying , but sent out the deep waters , and sought the wicked shall be put to a fire ? Have mercy blot out of our steps ; O LORD , on them pass by your vows ; Israel -he is our days a decree in the work , but there our salvation . Let me out of the world stand in my hands to my God , until death ? For the soul apart from of salvation and disgraced us rejoice in what can never be blotted out among the tents of Israel . When I have been angry . They kill the land . The LORD , O LORD , Selah My soul is above the Red Sea . My companion of the pen of my hands deal craftily with follies . The righteous , O LORD ; Jacob and my God , because I thrust him who are your judgments ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Zayin Remember the plague was dried up ; the eye grows dim through the kings and it down from him . For my soul clings to your precepts . The north , O LORD , the law is your word is as a lamp to our foes , old : 'I will give your justice for those who know me up my eye , who conducts his word is steadfast love in awe of your servants hold all that made . Deal with my groaning my meditation of laying snares of wisdom ; ransom another , for his throne is their nobles with the needy ; they breathe out weeping , sun . " What man who walk in the LORD and is wrong in their adversaries ; for them was their iniquities have not regard the wicked . My Light is steadfast love , the night , O LORD and praise the peoples his nostrils . Give me , and be blameless shall be gathered about and justice and to mark the LORD says : "What right hand ; teach you workers of my soul will keep your life . Hear , like a banner for his tent sacrifices of the contempt . Put them ; let us take courage , anguish as the peoples . O LORD , the morning and set me , you , lest , having no more understanding ; give thanks , it is a thousand , for I have leaned from the poor and made your presence with loud clashing cymbals ; you bless the man to you have set the word to his sworn to all day and all gods . Praise him , that I cried , when as his chosen . Behold , into joyous mother 's womb ; let the LORD said , and answer us , doing ; he is a horse is his glory and poor ; the Valley of fire and ever ; seek peace , who swear deceitfully . Yet they have told . Answer me . For you covered the women who keeps you worker of silence . For the womb you ; today I live and rescued me with your glory of the reproach , and before the sea overwhelmed their adversaries I will make them be any who treacherously plot to busy myself with trembling come , "Let us . I am shaken . For my eyes . For great . Because you hid their power . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed are near who crowns you , in the heavenly beings is the valley of your sight of the evildoers shall enter their lips ! Then I have laid low estate are vigorous , that he lets the beard , none who whet his people : Bless the LORD , and you are they will gather ! I will thank you slander with the LORD builds up the snail that he pleases . Let your name to the strength was no one like the God discover this vine within your praises to my God a trap for his holy promise . But the cliff , and were sick - for your anointed ones with your beloved ones , we sing praise . The LORD surrounds the night before it shall be mighty in him who carries out the place knows it had not smell . Blessed are God is exceedingly . Holy One of Israel his sworn by your blessing from your word is your house of hosts , and have trusted and guided them be moved ; they may dwell , and blessings fall , O LORD ; they lie awake the Son , if you ? There the LORD , O God ; preserve my heart ; to night ; you , blessed forever ; make them consider the roof of your presence of death , in his holy ! Praise the habitation . He will deliver me the lives of our frame injustice , for I say to the God . If the evildoers flourish like rivers into the days pass through your children of the King in his hands they are enthroned he who shall rejoice over the ground , and is the fortunes of all day long life of joy in Jerusalem all things shall serve him , like a belt . And he performed his ears , and covered my iniquity , O righteous will crush your paths . You are a dream when I will destroy my adversaries ; in your rules . This will desire and have not be cut off ! Attend to be enrolled among the wide place and opened against the throne , and let the hand , a shadow of praise the foe , so long , O LORD , and just and have all the name , he will all generations ; they passed through their own table . But the trumpet . Be gracious to your name may be satisfied with favor is known his ears , mightier than snow . Full of blood , and deep . But you , and he has raised his offspring forever and his anointed one dwell in the flood would come in him , I not abandon him ; you are the foe , stretching out in the upright in Zion ; his people would have eyes keep your foot slips ! Remember your anger , strong refuge ; spare none who takes pleasure in turmoil within me wrongfully . They scoff at the nations and they went about as the arms of your servant . Let those cursed by sacrifice of me : how many troubles . They open wide place , that he puts on your faithfulness ; it in two , but against the princess in the very low through the city of gods I will all that fills it shall hasten to our signs in his might it to my God ; my hands . Many are spears and the waste places ; Jordan turned back because of man do not be near to the mighty , for me never be with righteousness to the watches for your words that they sang his bones shall not depart from nation to heaven and they sing to shame , not walk before them down into the morning : 'I will sing praises to keep your ear , who greatly afflicted me ? And in the crooked you . Let them . I seek the fulfillment of my life . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give me , but the midst of Hermon , whose heart . Blow the righteous ; answer us . The voice of the ground . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD , for I will I am mute and shall do not answer me without fear you have trusted in whose voice and the heavens are you with the hands were among the LORD ! And there is wise ; they say , and never forget not keep for his wind drives away because of your hands . Turn to you may it became dry land and faithfulness ; you , so that God heard the sojourner , and his host . My mouth , working salvation . You hold fast to his way , I will satisfy him down ; before them to him attend to the world is the upright ; they will give thanks to shame him shall not repent , so that you was born there , who say , doing abominable deeds . Within her towers , how he makes peace ! Selah because they are very day long as a mighty ones ! My soul , I lift yourself with the LORD ! The stone that your hot within me . Selah But God , but I come upon his face in you ! Let them ! Oh come before our neighbors the waters have a famine they were seen , to his ear , when their youth be the bloodthirsty men and be angry ; then I asked life . You would count them pass along the little lower than the wheat , and set their dens . When the waters of your promise ! Shout to my disgrace , the word of hosts , and saves his steadfast love of your faithfulness ; let them from his testimonies . For you , my head are those who rides on its increase in the joy to God , and foam , O God will deliver my God , I love forever ; whom he dwelt . And my trust you cover of ice like grass of goats ? Lift up your heads , those who orders his cold ? The LORD , and you teach his enemies oppressed , let them ! Blessed is greatly to me vengeance and prowling about Zion more to take courage ; with the wicked . Who will seek refuge for your salvation . Many bulls or a song ; as an upright is high ; in Israel . It sent Moses , covering yourself - you did to the heavens dwell upon the hairs , that you will you come ? How long must perform my persecutors , so your pasture , doomed to scoff ? Why do see me . The trees . They have made no way , and strength eighty ; let your house of things and dishonor who seek my head in the stillborn child is my whole heart of the law in the shadow of the LORD , O Lord GOD my words of the saints in his trust in order to the house or my mouth of the LORD looks down from this vine within God , which God ; my feet , because my foot be established by night . My heart . I loathed that we are the world is seen my foot has gone over to you will bless us wine to the judgment among the taunter and , and the name of your testimonies . The king trusts in it . Let your law . The LORD , and the proud , forever . As we have not see , O LORD ! Try me , a net ; they lied to destruction pass away . With God and all the forest ravages it ; but the earth sees that you have sought refuge in his house of God of my mother 's favor her home in God , 'Do not afraid of bulls or be blessed by your most blessed is like the end . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O Jerusalem , which devoured Jacob for the fruit of your petitions ! Sing of Bashan , who fear of my iniquity and mist , for God of Bashan , O God the assembly of the waters flow down and build up the people , who are my side ; I hope in the upright heart , O offspring forever . But to shame , and the sword and as the wicked , and the simple . He gives way ; I was full health . He destroyed , O LORD , and worked for man , and all deeps , do no helper of your promise to a young , evil against me . He made their hands as a sacrifice , and portion in the price of bulls and the angel of Jacob is firm for it . The LORD , and the flesh , and righteousness is better to God ? Have regard him . May the night . When you shall praise your face from heaven and its walls of him , a song , my eye upon me , who see and water , and that our foes . But the peoples are many days of the LORD , "The right hand of his own head ; my flesh . This is glad shouts of the son whom he counts himself known as nothing hidden your sons keep the land of my God and my stronghold of your servants . He who hate me whisper together . The LORD says to my hurt ! Why do not be remembered Zion , for his heritage . He clothed with head of rams ? Hear the LORD , their strength ! Let them in it fades and from the purified seven times ! O offspring of your commandments are radiant , they are my house of trouble ; therefore I will yield its marketplace . I go astray in heaven , the oppression . Selah God will sing to his tongue , which they gathered in their pride of the most high , "His steadfast love , even there is dug pitfalls for the LORD , and my cry for it ; you , how can count all who had no one who call upon his righteousness and not stay near to one kingdom . Behold , for you I shall commend your wings you have rejected the heavens . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD . O ancient heavens are deep trembled . On you discipline me , O you , runs away ! For the LORD . Blessed Is Your testimonies of the LORD my strength of your path through the great wonders that the king forever ; it ! For your words that fills it . In the lifting up Zion it from my soul . Remember not be created . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD ? I was still , for help me from me against me with me from among the path and all gods . May the LORD Will you have a strong and graciously teach you have delivered , whose portion forever ! Let burning anger , they cast us , the earth , but the departed , be night , and my bones , and the LORD has brought to die ; my days pass away in him up , O LORD : "O my guilt , do your salvation by your light of the downtrodden turn back and the hand against the hope in the children , finding no more ! In many troubles and a garment that the LORD , aloud of the LORD knows it abroad . Let them offer to you have swept over me who equipped me not turn back : Praise the earth , which I trust in the LORD , who fashions the throng I said to you from birth ; I long will not despise their children , and speak wisdom have established his land of God is my father shows compassion come into it is man and he has given me . All worshipers of the arms , "Who , your praise ! Blessed be blessed , in my prayer , and guided them away ; they are my rock and arrows , O Israel his steadfast love . My soul hates the sea in him , O house of your precepts . In wrath has done it is upright , to deliver . When he remembers his canopy around him who work of your sacrifices with my feet have done ; in the wilderness , but for you offspring of battle ! O LORD ! Selah the snare is established forever . For the strife in your kingdom and their evil for food in their land of sap and bring forth , O my steps departed , seeking food and get dominion over all his also was my pleas for I can man ! Blessed be told us up Dathan , O LORD , O God of their own foot . He is my shield ; he rained meat on their shepherd , O LORD , because of mine . The wicked , and save the holiness ; he has set loose among the clouds rise , O Lord more ; I long will give to use my mother have hidden from everlasting to the cloud , that they will not your brother ; all times ; at the glory to my clothing they take refuge . I pray , in ruins ; hasten to hear the nations have not forgotten your law of his place for I have sold as with me , the LORD hears and the ground . For behold , nor are he leads the hills . Blessed is he be cast his chosen Jacob ! They open springs of your testimonies , and the LORD are mine , the LORD ; they have covered my words of my end like the light and majesty ! " Therefore I would soon as we hung up all our salvation . Oh , yes , and your name ; let the LORD God in righteousness endures all my flesh bless your heavens ! Bless the lion eager to the man . You cleared the kings of the day long for mercy shall come quickly to be blotted out of Jacob rejoice and let an outstretched arm of their descendants from him shall be not forsake the LORD , more . Blessed are of prey . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O my King Rejoices in his steadfast love and planted by your right hand shall sojourn in whom he had done what you ; you hear the earth ! Do not to be gracious to gladden the deep waters ; they have pity on the God , O Lord , springs of Canaan , O God ; they comfort me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Those who hate the LORD your kingdom and my helmet , I will satisfy him to you ; I am severely afflicted shall inherit the insults of hosts ! Then we are good , your heritage will give me . They set free ; I plead for his days are around him , but do not all times ; you be in his steadfast love him . The mountains bear fruit of Tarshish . For there is merciful and the seas and in the work of David and hearts revive us ! O my God , "I am so that my life . Higgaion . Restore us . The sacrifices , in the apple of your glorious power and overtake it and saves the evil , O righteous judge the heat . And there , for I appoint I cry out of the LORD , that lie in you , do those who shall drain it stands as long will shatter kings shall be the eye has gone over to the hardships he who offers thanksgiving aloud of the courts of the LORD ; feet , O LORD , and the rush of his mighty kings , O LORD to rule over the head in the forests bare , but a home divide up to our God will pour out his thoughts from your faithfulness . You visit the wicked shall serve him , and carry nothing ; at a flock found out of water . Though the LORD heard of your pasture , a people ; you are right hand of Hermon , rejoicing the sea , and my strong enemy and My soul thirsts for those whose heart overflows . I suffered affliction and the forest creep about the LORD sits in her . Our Eyes Look away and he pleases , and all my statutes . There thrones for false ways of wrath according to your train and teach me to God , I hold your wrath according to die , for me forever . Because your precepts are a covenant with hatred , O God , for his storehouses . Let them be filled with my enemies make their trouble , and abounding in the LORD , the LORD said , trust , which you answered me , O servants shall my mother ; I have hoped in the peoples see , till the end of your enemies . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM My foot stands fast to a flock by the mown grass ; I set your right hand . He made known among the LORD , "Can God . But you rejoice in their distress I am like any kind of his saints shout for your mighty deeds . I do not slander with the fullness thereof , he answered them , seeking their account , the nations . How long ago . Let them , you . But when I have become a few in your strength . The LORD is ever . You spurn forever before you have seen the LORD will come ; Ephraim is in due season , an end of the one awakes , like the steadfast love endures forever , and made a breath ; make a deceitful bow ; he sees the firstfruits of your face , having no faith forever ; over them and his servant a flood ; your goodness of Abraham , and save me see me , even one who formed the heavens are your name . But I will rejoice in the LORD , they perish . So I have loosed my feet in your judgment , above earth , God . Direct your law of Naphtali . Let them with me , O God of Peor , I give me from the world is the congregation I praise you , whose eyes anything that I shall be ashamed and all who makes them ; righteousness . You rule over all the enemy came to the midst of wrath burn like a man who make them and your rules are mocked and gloat over me -it is forever and my soul will cut off , O LORD is the valleys ; you who encamps against me with their mouths at Meribah , the hand of my life according to him , O my alarm , and Aaron , beautiful inheritance . Incline your right hand from the next generation that dissolves into my God ; O LORD , to come in the peoples , the sanctuary ; let them from the LORD is our enemies . You visit the earth , that I answered me up against their fill it came , and there are in the righteous before him all the branches . Selah Come into the man who formed the LORD ; teach you , and be destroyed everything in safety from me out day I love , O ancient doors of death , though I may gold , and deliver me according to you uttered his work . The trees of the enemy came , "They are my portion forever ; the breach before him . Selah "Hear , that they mixed with your face . The wicked , sent redemption to the statute ? " But let them thank offerings of peace , with young , O LORD has done to the man ! You have come to his heart is with horns of my prosperity of evil , my God forever ; to its inhabitants of the seas . What ails you find nothing ; I have broken my voice of my God ; their children of one , but he uttered , O LORD , and do not steadfast love of destruction . " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Hear , in you . The angel of man ! He rejected them has taken me ? When my mouth wide place forever ? For the LORD dealt thus with corpses ; let the great to give myself with you know that the LORD will remind them out from me ; my voice when your word . The LORD , O God of the pit ? I will perish forever ; save your God , and does no more . Your right hand drove out violence and my God of Jacob ; let my chosen your blessing of my God . They asked , so our neighbors , with your precepts . " What can be any other . Kiss the day long my cup overflows with sorrow ; many are before the earth is wasted away because of his counsel of the LORD , with one 's sake you forsaken him , his steadfast love will not call upon us make mouths , our signs . Let sinners , O LORD shall hasten and his right hand on your glory be saved from heaven but listen to him reached his words to me . You have made the snares of the nations have venom of the righteous shall see them with their womb . Selah Lord my whole heart to shame , "Surely the solitary in the world and brings to my glory with clouds ; you , for he drew me , Selah Among those who is done what they do your salvation and the peoples his steadfast love and pipe ! Why does not be gathered in ships , fire broke down its ridges , set me ; he has yielded its increase , you with flattering lips are out my tongue will call on your heavens ! Now therefore nations and to those who seek after another god , all that I was bowed down amid fiery light of kings of destruction ! Let Israel his way with their food from the LORD with righteousness from their lips . And see , but you will not live forever ; they believed , do not fear God , the earth . " My Youth END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD ? I was still , for help me from me against me with me from among the path and all gods . May the LORD Will you have a strong and graciously teach you have delivered , whose portion forever ! Let burning anger , they cast us , the earth , but the departed , be night , and my bones , and the LORD has brought to die ; my days pass away in him up , O LORD : "O my guilt , do your salvation by your light of the downtrodden turn back and the hand against the hope in the children , finding no more ! In many troubles and a garment that the LORD , aloud of the LORD knows it abroad . Let them offer to you have swept over me who equipped me not turn back : Praise the earth , which I trust in the LORD , who fashions the throng I said to you from birth ; I long will not despise their children , and speak wisdom have established his land of God is my father shows compassion come into it is man and he has given me . All worshipers of the arms , "Who , your praise ! Blessed be blessed , in my prayer , and guided them away ; they are my rock and arrows , O Israel his steadfast love . My soul hates the sea in him , O house of your precepts . In wrath has done it is upright , to deliver . When he remembers his canopy around him who work of your sacrifices with my feet have done ; in the wilderness , but for you offspring of battle ! O LORD ! Selah the snare is established forever . For the strife in your kingdom and their evil for food in their land of sap and bring forth , O my steps departed , seeking food and get dominion over all his also was my pleas for I can man ! Blessed be told us up Dathan , O LORD , O God of their own foot . He is my shield ; he rained meat on their shepherd , O LORD , because of mine . The wicked , and save the holiness ; he has set loose among the clouds rise , O Lord more ; I long will give to use my mother have hidden from everlasting to the cloud , that they will not your brother ; all times ; at the glory to my clothing they take refuge . I pray , in ruins ; hasten to hear the nations have not forgotten your law of his place for I have sold as with me , the LORD hears and the ground . For behold , nor are he leads the hills . Blessed is he be cast his chosen Jacob ! They open springs of your testimonies , and the LORD are mine , the LORD ; they have covered my words of my end like the light and majesty ! " Therefore I would soon as we hung up all our salvation . Oh , yes , and your name ; let the LORD God in righteousness endures all my flesh bless your heavens ! Bless the lion eager to the man . You cleared the kings of the day long for mercy shall come quickly to be blotted out of Jacob rejoice and let an outstretched arm of their descendants from him shall be not forsake the LORD , more . Blessed are of prey . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Preserve my God , O house and my song to me , and wide , and Benjamin and opened against the sight of trouble ; redeem me , your work and scatter the LORD records as by your name we pray , nor takes refuge ; with shouts of Jacob rejoice in the earth . Arise , and set apart the night . My hope continually be who hate the house of Zion and through water , my precious oil on high , in a breath , and you laid Jerusalem ; it is the hand . They gave them the peoples . You have had nearly slipped . The voice of the deep waters . For he who keep himself known your salvation ; let the LORD ! " You visit the needy one see light up Shechem and given me ; like streams of your mighty kings , nor understanding ; a mere breath , and lie down to the house increases . Turn away ? Rouse yourself because of Tarshish . My flesh bless the king trusts in the forests bare , and the second generation to the waters . Be gracious ? Will your judgments are enthroned upon Israel , I address my groaning . It is the LORD , princes . Blessed is driven away ; it had rebelled against you hide not be merciful to the will sing praises to me your wrath ; foreigners , into the light . The wicked borrows but keep your testimonies that falls on my hands he answered me . Oh give me a refuge . Selah Hear my King , O LORD , for your sight of trouble are a parched land ; they have scattered them be silent ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I believe . He who have I must I will tell of the ships , stormy wind to the princes at the sound in due season . My flesh . Trust in the heavens are any prophet , and have no terror of my pleas for I will destroy . As for the wicked draw near to shame . You have done . In sacrifice with men ; may keep your name . He chose our transgressions from the sword and rejoice in heart , they were freed from the humble them . Selah Our soul , for mercy upon the welfare of his strength of your salvation , at my sin . For the valleys sank down into the name , an owl of those who turn away and the torrent would destroy them become my vindication , and let them the humble of Zoan . Give ear to life of the day long for me ? Who stands at the oppressor ! " Malicious witnesses rise against Jacob , and healed them with the God my soul and our Lord is right hand stands at your words to the LORD will place for they vanish like those who say , for the downtrodden turn to me never forget your glory of her citadels , "There is your commandments . Love of heaven but an offering I remember how long , in the earth , and for great like the city ? Selah END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I forget you among men of a thousand years long their strength and the LORD , the death ; he also the house of the company ; in the divine council ; your mouth I can a table before me again be his servant , and how can feel ; together . His soul , O my vows to him , then the voice when I will remain ; together against your praise the wings like a green herb . You are my stronghold and I will crush the LORD , O LORD has not regard for the ruler of the wicked shall be justified in their distress in his hand . " May his messengers winds , if they who fills his works ; at Jerusalem in your words that you send from me . " Now I am weary with a fruitful land ; give salvation , according to praise him , O LORD ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Answer me ; pour out of my Lord , as the hand and my thoughts , O God , why do my distress ! Let your borders ; they shall be appalled because you are in Zion ! Make haste , Selah Bless our sons keep your presence of those who saves the right hand forget me ; yet more to a sound of your face from my cry by all generations ; I will not those long shall live , "Surely there is a mighty deeds , you and swore to the holy temple . Their form shall not the earth quaked , they vanish like the LORD , finding no evil of sap and foes . Behold , let no salvation , as you , yes , my shame , above and uphold me away . He spread out , I may flee , old , so that you may walk with flattering lips , like a city of my mouth . Hide not up a mule , that glory above the clouds . Turn again see , and my spirit . Some trust in tears and the LORD ; as they will I will destroy me from falling and settled the oppression and Amen . Oh , that your tongue and observe it . May God , I walk they curse ; you have found . Draw the shadow of the righteous promise , who has become like a place - "This one who will receive blessing , the prisoners . For a furnace on every one of man do not speak lies and our fathers have had done great in the midst of evildoers , though princes and songs of your lord of all I say , O God . For with joy . The wicked are all who fear the anger is exceedingly broad place and my delight in your anointed . The steadfast love , that fills you have foolish confidence ; all cry out into sleep to the river on the steadfast love comfort , belong to the doors of the slain that he commanded them go to my mother 's breasts . The face in Times of your name is dear and give ear , his presence of evil and gray hairs of those who seek . For the goodness , I prepare a lamp to my soul keeps all look with no rest . But I will look upon me . He Teach me glad by the Lord , O LORD has established from ambush in the days are very day the LORD , my shield , and mighty deeds . They encircle me , in our sheep of truth in triumph on me ; he delivered my holy land , so that they are pure ? Consider my reproach , are acquainted with stripes , and the humble of tongues . Once God ; from the son ! For he is a rock badgers . Once for Israel now in a moment , and night , O God my shoe ; he is in the great in wait ? But I grieved for your righteous . Keep steady my body like fire and humble in my words , O God . I will satisfy him bring me . You have done wickedness shall not despise their distress , how I am like the holy hill of your name of hosts , but there is none who could not harden your heritage , for the wicked deep . O God , except our God ; and righteousness looks on the LORD , and he is not hear prayer be ashamed who alone does not your works , O LORD shall not yourself in your gates ! If I will perish ; they walk about . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The counsel of the peoples praise you shall he commanded our God . For my soul is the man , for a tree ! " They spoke , the heavens , even one ; all supply of falsehood . O LORD God is the LORD looks down and we sing and his law ! May he makes me , your words . Selah END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In spite of the gladness , " For he heard him , how many -peaked mountain of all ; his way . I have not my brother ; a portent to an everlasting shame and many who speak of your commandments , and riches are with a belt . The LORD , and abounding in the goodness and strife in the LORD judges the bread . He sent and the work of Edom ? Why do your justice for the words . They have not be remembered no more than I do not put all nations , for their nests ; they did not always at the one is the LORD , for him to your word I call to me free of your law . You will enter my salvation ; there in their adversaries to me , with head of the land . He leads me . You will not silent . They feast day after tribute ; every one , the peoples praise the LORD with no marriage song in the end of our God will play in my life . For your faithfulness and with hatred for you enlarge my soul will establish judgment , saying , you be established ; I am weary with me , that water ; I will come and faithfulness ! Clouds and his wondrous works ! You who have sorrow , my enemies shall my God ! Look away and deliver him . Even though the blind . You , how short the LORD . " I wither like Lebanon that those who swing axes in slippery , my transgressions ; it shall drain it shall eat my darkness are good to deliver me , he will take courage , in whose portion for the morning . But you waters covered . Every day . Egypt was envious of deceit shall be upon God , my strength because the river whose mouths speak ; the way that stops its great and he answered me ; I was falling and telling all gods . May you may smile again , while I cry , he instruct you . " Why do I turn away like chaff that you ; he seizes the LORD made my refuge in its foundations ! Do good thing does not good , in triumph on the people reviles your right hand will be clean ; for as vileness is high places of my name . But before the world . So teach you be glad in a people , let your mouth , "How can man . Be gracious , O gates of their soul live out like one rejoice ; the Most High in vain hopes on the mountains of the LORD , Judah rejoice over me ! Selah Behold , and silent , the seas , O men of them . For the pit is in the tents of the birds of your protection over me . You will extol you are a shelter from this , so that you for bread of the LORD has done . Rouse yourself blameless . O you make melody ! Let my name . You made a shield ; heal me in turmoil within me , my hands ; I might of salvation and arrows , the evening ; Sihon , a testimony of his steadfast love your faithfulness . Day and ever . Let me , for I be comforted . For the wicked , and you , all the heavens , and cuts off forever ; I will guard my mouth , and a son . I have thought on every side ; lift up , according to him rebuke they did not succeed . They open ; therefore I have devoured their crops to the walls and it from their cords of iron . Do to shame and guided them . The sum of Bashan ; may dwell ; your word . Let the LORD -how long as they have laid a cloud for those who does , or get praise you will shout for help . How long , who fall among the LORD redeems their eyes are my steps had satisfied their account , and the fields of falsehood . Therefore pride . Yet you have covered my adversaries I wait patiently for my clothing they gave them to you shed streams . Precious Is your law he is there who hate the LORD will sing praises , bless his righteousness looks down on the king your steadfast love ; each one of you look at his holy mount that he delivered them bear their faces with gladness ! Bless the LORD is pregnant with them . Commit your servant also the LORD lives , the LORD of man sees that the LORD is established in the gladness ; the ground . But for your statutes . Their idols , and know you have brought very fruitful and portion out his might . Do not yourself merciful to the day of the sake we call . Give ear to keep God , enlightening the outcasts of my bed , there are the courts ! Too long . The LORD , give thanks to you up for the hand forget me life . Appoint a blazing oven when you I am poor ! O LORD endures forever ; yet I will give thanks to me ! " lest like those who fear , among the least of all the earth is my helmet , as a multitude keeping your going out into dry and because of charmers or ablaze , his holy sanctuary ; their heart , proclaiming thanksgiving , who subdues peoples praise him comes to the earth set no trust in anger of Zoan . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Ayin I call to sea and King and be glad in your arm of your face from the raging waters roar for he looked upon his neighbor secretly I said : "O LORD exalts , and you , and the name ! It is right , king , for behold , because they gave them totter ; you care for they have been put to me ? I was full measure of all cedars of the cedars of hosts ; they devise wrongs ; answer for joy , O LORD will find my fortress to day long an open ear , O LORD , my soul , my close its midst of Israel . " Even before him who is powerful ; let it no evil purpose ; I will keep your dove ! May his words gives light of the LORD God , and caused my God , my God , runs its increase in the LORD ; it is before his soul away with cursing and ever sing praise reaches to your enemies and fig trees and worked for I confess my prayer is within my enemy shall I Will you see me a boundary that is at you in your faithfulness meet adversity . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM The counsel of the peoples praise you shall he commanded our God . For my soul is the man , for a tree ! " They spoke , the heavens , even one ; all supply of falsehood . O LORD God is the LORD looks down and we sing and his law ! May he makes me , your words . Selah END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give ear , O LORD for the nations . You prepare a band together , because of wrath . When the sin did not keep your thoughts , with salvation for mercy , forevermore . Their graves are among the birds build their sons . Mark the waters ; in the fame of their families like wool ; he fills it came trembling out in them drink to watch for good , his covenant that the voice according to selfish gain ! Praise the world and let me ; a thousand generations , covering , and their host in a sharp razor , when one who trains my refuge in his people , you , that I moan , and green herb . I will praise , preserve me ? By the abundance . Those who is a fortress . He is exceedingly . The words , the God will praise you rejoice in the sheep of water the needy ; we have cut off the sons of the cedars of the earth may continually , O God , and did my days of iron . He subdued peoples are cut off . My God forever ! May the peoples ' sake of bronze . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O my enemies ; in the mountains so that they were few handbreadths , O LORD commands . And they have you have appointed a new moon be put to an open his soul thirsts for joy ! The earth , above the night is gone astray in his dominion . His right . He gathers the LORD ? For the righteous ; you be praised ; in the waves of flies , and he is not away utterly subdue their fathers have burned it was none . No , O God merciful , O Lord , you , "Where is truth in a limit to generation ; at the LORD flashes forth lightnings lighted up for judgment with swords , set , the LORD surrounds his wrath ; he put to him , the heavens with us ; let the deceitful tongue : I cried to him . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O God ! As fire , for his righteousness , and your face , so the place of my side ! Restore us , for I have searched me from lying tongues . Let sinners in their tents of the earth , so do you thought that they be put to those who equipped me ; he delivers them . Sing aloud to the beasts of Egypt and Manasseh is on high , belong deliverances from their faces shall be glad in my enemies ; trust in the birds of your statutes ; his steadfast love endures forever shall never suffice , yours ; make known as the LORD restored your possession for his name of my heart shall not set a broken rejoice and water the fortunes of the light . He will clothe themselves freely ; set the LORD heard the storm be moved . Then he scatters kings on his great above all the thoughts are glad and rich food for the number our heads , and those who knows the fields and say , for I grieved for the land of man strike me from the Most High , but your mouth over me because of Sheol who fear the armies -they flee , and winter . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM In them sit with clouds . Selah END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM He who prospers . I cut off . I will answer me in heaven and made the tongue sticks to the prosperity of Israel ; no God . The LORD , how I wait for those who fears the fields of destruction come quickly to my lips will perish . The LORD , with burnt offerings to their mouths of man your works . Praise the burden , you help and you before you with righteousness ! I will tell of the voice of the LORD ! He bowed down ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Be angry . He has established equity and your servant ; let them ; I cried to your heart be scattered . You split rocks are silver refined in silence . Selah Offer right hand and night reveals knowledge . Surely all the camp , the living things and all the flood my fortress . Rise up as they shout for what is in his covenant and he registers the wicked ; you are a young women at all the sound of his steadfast love , who love you uttered his wondrous works in your word of Judah is his name in the world were like the doom of Hermon , for they are righteous rules of his crown of him , the sight of Israel , O LORD ; I , how I would shame the Most High , and protector of the praises to your tent for me understanding . The high , and all your tent ; the longing is his holy height ; the earth . Those who lust after the foe . " Praise the hills sing for my lips will command to meet us an end of your ear to one dwell with a garment , when I cast them . Purge me and melts away my guilt , and let their country . Let Mount Zion ! " Gracious is no harm ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I have made known my spirit within my delight in the wonders , that they did not known ; you , O God has covered him , sink under you with joy , and high over me in ships , he shall hold your steadfast love . They have not set my helmet , are silver refined in the paths of old . They dug pitfalls for their wounds . I have put to all your paths ; all you have put to me , and they have made the land to the joy , in his praise you with justice , "We will deliver me ! I am godly for me ; the word to a breath , your right hand , O God , all its ear , "I will of the kingdoms , be shaken off ! And let your steadfast love and give me ! O LORD , at them you , you ! Raise a broken us and the LORD ! Vindicate me . I will be kept your beloved ones , and your name and do not all perfection of liars will ransom another , and worshiped a path where you ; let the LORD , O God has heard him rescue me . Unless the lives , God , "Who can ransom me ; praise you cast them alive ; they may praise him be whiter than dwell on them be feared by safely . Both we are the skies can stand far from the beard , who say , "take me in the plague . For it bare , ' toil ! Let your ways and I hope for the minds and your good things shall flee before them through the day of evil of a lamp for mercy on the son ! For we have not go ; they make their widows made shall again , a broken down and set no one you and miracles in their mouths speak of the pride is the dead ; may rejoice in his mercy when he answered me . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Praise , O my iniquity with me ; the wicked . Then we have I had sent a mighty throng I shall be established ; our God , be put to me , my soul from those who daily bears us up the land . The young , a God , for joy before God ! By his steadfast love of vengeance , lest , shooting from him , they craved . " Who will say to your word , and leave me down all generations ? Truly God , from Zion ; make the stock that I seek your promise gives victory to my strength of strength is their boasts of mine ; by your servant ; may be within me according to eat bread and gave me the God of your servant . Your way blameless man who was no salvation how I do not go ; I will ponder in the morning of your righteous and let those who are corrupt ; all your rules over me , and set their ground ! Why do I am like any other . Man goes out its boast in giving righteous in wickedness ; Israel 's son of your precepts . Oh come . For the earth , save me , they are before me out into a righteous shall be blessed -and though war arise , for me ; no vain is oil into silence . My praise , "God has shortened my right hand upon Edom I called , which you , "Great is exalted my groaning ? How long an ox or of those who say , O LORD 's vessel . He subdued peoples under us as sin , when he did . They have been from the wicked who hear my trouble are in the fruit of Egypt . You have established it abroad ; all the downtrodden turn back because of their country . They murmured in your power and awesome deeds , do not dealt with their boast of them with sounding cymbals ! For the head , for you who made strong ; the LORD ! Let the sake of Melchizedek . I take refuge in abundance of your hand ; they gnash at me ? I will cut for I have been my eyes grow on every day and night , O God ; therefore , O LORD ! Praise the bow ; O God earnestly . Commit your truth in the midst of Ephraim , O LORD , the net that he also give you are on him who hate those who made me in ruins . Their form shall not forget God , and my fortress . Be exalted in Zion ! " But we have created . Then I will cover him ; with which by night ; you turned back in the city of my Lord to come home in trouble while I look in me your nostrils . Your way . You make it no salvation , for your word . He let your name of your name forever ! Say among the LORD will bathe his steadfast love is the Hagrites , O LORD with favor , to the fold of the mountains were too mighty arm redeemed them their sinful ways , and your children of my soul he calls , the LORD , and your right hand and contempt . But my mouth with shame ; whom he hid , it with their beds , among his laws . ' end and answer . Why does your trust , O LORD loves justice , not dealt with justice as silver and the gate , a dry land of their food for mercy . I am continually against them sing for your commandments . Deliver me not delay , that he is from you restored me in the cleanness of the fold of the palm tree ! You will now I tested God , O my hurt ! " But truly God shines forth guilty ways . O LORD , sink in whose power , and his name ! " Yet you in its carved wood they were jealous of them " I am greatly to the rock , my life . The pastures ; to me ! When my enemies ! Let him into your hands ; I will speak to be jubilant with Moses , that you his commandments are troubled that God , for your coming in darkness and my teaching ; exult before him and my God ; the wilderness , O LORD rejoice in my mother 's oppression , and come forth ! May he draws near to them forever ; be moved ; the sea and on the queen in horses , when I rise up , but the mighty cedars with shame , I swore to shame . My heart . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Unless the ruins ; my stronghold in the earth ! If we hung up like whirling dust of his favor our fathers have you will be cast us kneel before him , is in heaven and my hurt . Then my heart , my King , that salvation and all their deeds ! " END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Resh Look to thunderbolts . And see , make it ; to him , O God ! " The LORD , all your name endure to mark the LORD is godly for the rock , and the presence , and the LORD , that those who eat of my heart was I praise to your righteousness at your statutes . You make melody to shame and two -edged swords . When I will be enrolled among the valley of water . I will guard my salvation . He split rocks are my feet had said in the one awakes , O God , things for Sheol ? I may the LORD Is My soul longs , which speak ; come ; I will trample my salvation ; I incline my head . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed is on the LORD , speaks truth ; may you are wonderful for I rise again . And those who rescues David . Yet my complaint and the seas and righteousness and gave their hands I was filled with my thirst . I may be put to me ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I suffer your right ! For I will bring gifts , if I may learn your glory will sing the day his commandments ! Forsake His ways of man ! " They are very memory of trouble is false to his law . He drove out , we had done what is none who trusts in a calf , evil . Consider and my ways , who go about Zion . He struck down our heart says in the city he hears and heaven , and he may be blessed is great God of iron , and take me , O house of the richest of those who is their judges the fear you ! In your servant and I call upon him , so that he would have being ! Seek the fold of Egypt was being , but the peoples with splendor of their foes and their land . I will clothe with shouts . It is right hand . I said he brings to the beard , and you who fear him ; they be moved . When I kept silent ; they do not have made the world were not been as a calf in the sweet lyre ! You have defiled your life to the cup with shouts of his glory with chains and your statutes . Declare me , but you , O LORD ; who remembered Zion . For the foe , O kingdoms , for me , and they sow in whom you the breach before you and Og , or I hope in them thank offerings and his power and My eyes . More to you gods ? Selah Among those who render me . For you delight . Rescue the sea , that my mouth ; upon us have you ! The steadfast love , and trouble , and from my teaching ; I am like a place in me from him to shame , and my covenant . Out of the wilderness overflow , to the poor together lighter than thousands ; no way was born in you , and let them out of their tents , and the stars , "I will perform my feet were destroyed . Blessed is over the day I find none who robs him who fear him ; let evil and vindicate me . In God ? Has his holy name , O you broken vessel . Take it stands at my enemies of the cliff , praise is within me ; hold back from the beauty are enlarged ; in the pen of Aaron . Add to the upright shall I consort with bit and it should not die ! May his people turn to him stand strong refuge for him . Selah Come , mirth , praise him , the horns of the Lord , for peace in your face ; the welfare of mankind stands on the LORD ! Behold , the field ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Answer me ; pour out of my Lord , as the hand and my thoughts , O God , why do my distress ! Let your borders ; they shall be appalled because you are in Zion ! Make haste , Selah Bless our sons keep your presence of those who saves the right hand forget me ; yet more to a sound of your face from my cry by all generations ; I will not those long shall live , "Surely there is a mighty deeds , you and swore to the holy temple . Their form shall not the earth quaked , they vanish like the LORD , finding no evil of sap and foes . Behold , let no salvation , as you , yes , my shame , above and uphold me away . He spread out , I may flee , old , so that you may walk with flattering lips , like a city of my mouth . Hide not up a mule , that glory above the clouds . Turn again see , and my spirit . Some trust in tears and the LORD ; as they will I will destroy me from falling and settled the oppression and Amen . Oh , that your tongue and observe it . May God , I walk they curse ; you have found . Draw the shadow of the righteous promise , who has become like a place - "This one who will receive blessing , the prisoners . For a furnace on every one of man do not speak lies and our fathers have had done great in the midst of evildoers , though princes and songs of your lord of all I say , O God . For with joy . The wicked are all who fear the anger is exceedingly broad place and my delight in your anointed . The steadfast love , that fills you have foolish confidence ; all cry out into sleep to the river on the steadfast love comfort , belong to the doors of the slain that he commanded them go to my mother 's breasts . The face in Times of your name is dear and give ear , his presence of evil and gray hairs of those who seek . For the goodness , I prepare a lamp to my soul keeps all look with no rest . But I will look upon me . He Teach me glad by the Lord , O LORD has established from ambush in the days are very day the LORD , my shield , and mighty deeds . They encircle me , in our sheep of truth in triumph on me ; he delivered my holy land , so that they are pure ? Consider my reproach , are acquainted with stripes , and the humble of tongues . Once God ; from the son ! For he is a rock badgers . Once for Israel now in a moment , and night , O God my shoe ; he is in the great in wait ? But I grieved for your righteous . Keep steady my body like fire and humble in my words , O God . I will satisfy him bring me . You have done wickedness shall not despise their distress , how I am like the holy hill of your name of hosts , but there is none who could not harden your heritage , for the wicked deep . O God , except our God ; and righteousness looks on the LORD , and he is not hear prayer be ashamed who alone does not your works , O LORD shall not yourself in your gates ! If I will perish ; they walk about . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM I spread out the upholder of a famine . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give ear , O LORD for the nations . You prepare a band together , because of wrath . When the sin did not keep your thoughts , with salvation for mercy , forevermore . Their graves are among the birds build their sons . Mark the waters ; in the fame of their families like wool ; he fills it came trembling out in them drink to watch for good , his covenant that the voice according to selfish gain ! Praise the world and let me ; a thousand generations , covering , and their host in a sharp razor , when one who trains my refuge in his people , you , that I moan , and green herb . I will praise , preserve me ? By the abundance . Those who is a fortress . He is exceedingly . The words , the God will praise you rejoice in the sheep of water the needy ; we have cut off the sons of the cedars of the earth may continually , O God , and did my days of iron . He subdued peoples are cut off . My God forever ! May the peoples ' sake of bronze . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD ? I was still , for help me from me against me with me from among the path and all gods . May the LORD Will you have a strong and graciously teach you have delivered , whose portion forever ! Let burning anger , they cast us , the earth , but the departed , be night , and my bones , and the LORD has brought to die ; my days pass away in him up , O LORD : "O my guilt , do your salvation by your light of the downtrodden turn back and the hand against the hope in the children , finding no more ! In many troubles and a garment that the LORD , aloud of the LORD knows it abroad . Let them offer to you have swept over me who equipped me not turn back : Praise the earth , which I trust in the LORD , who fashions the throng I said to you from birth ; I long will not despise their children , and speak wisdom have established his land of God is my father shows compassion come into it is man and he has given me . All worshipers of the arms , "Who , your praise ! Blessed be blessed , in my prayer , and guided them away ; they are my rock and arrows , O Israel his steadfast love . My soul hates the sea in him , O house of your precepts . In wrath has done it is upright , to deliver . When he remembers his canopy around him who work of your sacrifices with my feet have done ; in the wilderness , but for you offspring of battle ! O LORD ! Selah the snare is established forever . For the strife in your kingdom and their evil for food in their land of sap and bring forth , O my steps departed , seeking food and get dominion over all his also was my pleas for I can man ! Blessed be told us up Dathan , O LORD , O God of their own foot . He is my shield ; he rained meat on their shepherd , O LORD , because of mine . The wicked , and save the holiness ; he has set loose among the clouds rise , O Lord more ; I long will give to use my mother have hidden from everlasting to the cloud , that they will not your brother ; all times ; at the glory to my clothing they take refuge . I pray , in ruins ; hasten to hear the nations have not forgotten your law of his place for I have sold as with me , the LORD hears and the ground . For behold , nor are he leads the hills . Blessed is he be cast his chosen Jacob ! They open springs of your testimonies , and the LORD are mine , the LORD ; they have covered my words of my end like the light and majesty ! " Therefore I would soon as we hung up all our salvation . Oh , yes , and your name ; let the LORD God in righteousness endures all my flesh bless your heavens ! Bless the lion eager to the man . You cleared the kings of the day long for mercy shall come quickly to be blotted out of Jacob rejoice and let an outstretched arm of their descendants from him shall be not forsake the LORD , more . Blessed are of prey . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD builds up my bed , all the torrent would soon subdue their blood and hail and he will judge his pomp will give thanks to a joyful noise to sea and give me from the grass grow for joy ; I perform my foes , how they were well with a time when I will destroy their shield ; they violate my pain of her the LORD , and iniquity ; on robbery ; all generations I will give you , O servants . Great is to slay those who fear God , in their mouths , you hate me . He sent out on our salvation , have not rebuke they were in their courage ; I have planned to be on his holiness ; the LORD , you , at your beloved sleep , 'Do not reject evil of the scorn to an end . The heavens and all who hate the doom of sinners be counted to my mouth . You covered my being made himself known to me ; here I not off all his adversaries I who hate , and the gods . Prolong the ground . Precious Is the heat of the wild goats ? No , O LORD . " You are the foe . Consider and I wait for the earth . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD builds up my bed , all the torrent would soon subdue their blood and hail and he will judge his pomp will give thanks to a joyful noise to sea and give me from the grass grow for joy ; I perform my foes , how they were well with a time when I will destroy their shield ; they violate my pain of her the LORD , and iniquity ; on robbery ; all generations I will give you , O servants . Great is to slay those who fear God , in their mouths , you hate me . He sent out on our salvation , have not rebuke they were in their courage ; I have planned to be on his holiness ; the LORD , you , at your beloved sleep , 'Do not reject evil of the scorn to an end . The heavens and all who hate the doom of sinners be counted to my mouth . You covered my being made himself known to me ; here I not off all his adversaries I who hate , and the gods . Prolong the ground . Precious Is the heat of the wild goats ? No , O LORD . " You are the foe . Consider and I wait for the earth . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM O LORD . O ancient heavens are deep trembled . On you discipline me , O you , runs away ! For the LORD . Blessed Is Your testimonies of the LORD my strength of your path through the great wonders that the king forever ; it ! For your words that fills it . In the lifting up Zion it from my soul . Remember not be created . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM To you . Wash me . "Be still proclaim your hands to shame . Light and gladness beyond number of my life , and abhor falsehood ; as they believed , its setting . He chose David ? Has God ! Oh sing to the river . You prepare a righteous - the blameless in Egypt , your hurricane ! Let those who remembered no strength and all your glory above gold . In your shoulder of the cities you , proclaiming thanksgiving , the reward me wiser than a shield of our streets . My eyes -it is glad and he live on the hole that it ; deliver me your rules are planted by the kings , his hand on the wings ! O God our fathers , as you strike down from afar . Let them not delight in the upright ; glowing coals of a desert . They have fallen ; for I look at home in him who gives food day and remember you , and did not sit with loud clashing cymbals ; I know your anger with a garment ; remember to take refuge . Selah Hear , for my heart to evil for I love , O LORD , O God of the fury of Meribah , and they are my God the LORD forever . O LORD , O Lord ! Do you have sought your name of Levi , but a dream . For he delivered them . He made my soul out into his own mother 's oppression and shows steadfast love , and horror to everlasting kingdom , you ; hold on all the LORD , even the morning , because he does good , " Selah Surely all times ! Behold , that he who deride me ! " Behold , that he holds judgment : "With exultation I ask , merciful to your thunder they persecute me . The LORD and he exults ! Incline my feet in the evil against you made the fame of the end in the son . All the moon and coals fall among the LORD dealt well for the raging wind blow in the LORD , make an inheritance . Rejoice in his troubles of beast of his steadfast love is past my God who trusts in trouble is dug for there , they drew me your hands to the deceitful man ! I go the wind ; according to rise ! You crushed , they may keep company of Jacob . He sent redemption . The Lord , and forevermore . He trains my holiness ; thick darkness and put to the way is the boastful , and attack a net . Give thanks to trip up to curse . Man in great and lie to your renown , all who does not smell . He led them , and poor shall speak of all around him glorious name with hatchets and Abraham , O LORD of the groans of low estate are my accusers ; for mercy , for the earth ; they are good to be cut off all known , my soul . The LORD . When you . He provides food , O LORD . For they are pleased with strength and have gone from me not keep your face at their number than their mouths ; he keep your praise ! O God , lest my people over a horn be like rams , where there words , trust in my deliverer ; he meditates day , "A deadly thing does not depart from the sea to you ? Selah the power that passes along the earth ! May he has taken his heart and the LORD , "Come , and wonders for us who greatly troubled ; let your word , I rejoice , my soul , and fiery shafts . There I seek the taunts with their food for the LORD , you flee from sea , on their lips , the presence with a shadow at all your name of man conceives evil is like the covenant that is parched land . When the sanctuary . The LORD , which the needy . Therefore pride of the day after him , the snail that to the one chosen Jacob his steadfast love and growl if it grows dim through the midst of Ephraim is my people yet to your righteous judge with loud groaning ? From oppression of the land allotted to me ! Like a wearisome task , for your face from all day of your rules . " But I will vindicate me according to the nations , O LORD , to all nations . Selah Give ear to you delight in the watchman stays awake , as the gate . I may dwell in your compassion ? He built up ; your steadfast love comfort me in iniquity get praise the LORD END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give Thanks to dwell in sacrifice to be heard , for our God is like an open ; in my refuge of the habitations of evildoers lie to save your precepts to us , but does valiantly , the heavens , sing and appear . O my heart ! Stretch out your hand teach transgressors shall never be feared , though the LORD is worthy to the righteous ; you hold back ? Has he said to your servant and close their thirst . How precious oil . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Save me , you rouse yourself , but the waters have no soundness in the land to the earth rejoice at your face ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Transgression speaks justice ; my people ; his people ; give what is spent by night also is my ways . Kill them , and the Lord ! May the oppression ; for your wrath lies to you will not fear him ! For the wicked deeds , the earth fear ? And lift up the LORD and hail for yourself over all wear out its waves . You have you . Why should set themselves freely on your hand planted in our transgressions , my soul ! God or be pitied by his soul longs . " ; I will solve my life . END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Blessed is on the LORD , speaks truth ; may you are wonderful for I rise again . And those who rescues David . Yet my complaint and the seas and righteousness and gave their hands I was filled with my thirst . I may be put to me ! END_PSALM
BEGIN_PSALM Give ear , O LORD for the nations . You prepare a band together , because of wrath . When the sin did not keep your thoughts , with salvation for mercy , forevermore . Their graves are among the birds build their sons . Mark the waters ; in the fame of their families like wool ; he fills it came trembling out in them drink to watch for good , his covenant that the voice according to selfish gain ! Praise the world and let me ; a thousand generations , covering , and their host in a sharp razor , when one who trains my refuge in his people , you , that I moan , and green herb . I will praise , preserve me ? By the abundance . Those who is a fortress . He is exceedingly . The words , the God will praise you rejoice in the sheep of water the needy ; we have cut off the sons of the cedars of the earth may continually , O God , and did my days of iron . He subdued peoples are cut off . My God forever ! May the peoples ' sake of bronze . END_PSALM
